Pacific-Basin Finance Journal 87 (2024) 102478

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 

Pacific-Basin Finance Journal 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/pacfin 

Common ownership along the supply chain and 
supplier innovations 
Xian Chen 
Department of Accounting and Finance, Luter School of Business, Christopher Newport University1 Avenue of the Arts, Newport News, VA 23606, 
United States   

A R T I C L E  I N F O   A B S T R A C T   

JEL classification: Common owners are the (institutional) investors that hold equities of multiple firms. I examine 
O31 the impact of common ownership of suppliers and customers on suppliers’ innovation activities. I 
G32 find suppliers’ investment in innovation, quantity, and quality of innovation output increase 
L14 when common owners control higher fractions of their and their customers’ shares outstanding. 
Keywords: The impact of this vertical common ownership on innovation input and quality of innovation 
Corporate innovation output is stronger and more robust than that of the horizontal common ownership. I provide 
Ownership structure 
Transactional relationships plausible evidence for causality using both a difference-in-differences approach and an instru

ment variable approach based on a quasi-natural experiment in the form of financial institution 
mergers and acquisitions. Moreover, I test the potential channels through which the vertical 
common ownership could influence supplier innovation. My evidence suggests that common 
ownership increases suppliers’ investment in innovation by mitigating hold-up issues between 
suppliers and customers and enhances suppliers’ innovation output performance by improving 
technological spillovers between suppliers and customers. However, my results also suggest that 
for suppliers producing mainly capital goods, these positive effects of common ownership on 
innovation are offset by a negative effect due to vertical creative destruction. Overall, my evi
dence suggests that common institutional ownership enhances suppliers’ innovation performance 
by improving relationships between suppliers and their customers.   

1. Introduction 

Common ownership describes the situation in which equities of multiple companies are held by the same (institutional) investors. 
Table 1 demonstrates an example of common ownership of suppliers and customers (i.e., vertical common ownership). Tenneco, a 
designer and manufacturer of emissions and ride-control products, is selling to multiple automotive companies all over the world. Its 
customers include U.S. companies such as Caterpillar, Ford Motor, Navistar, Harley Davidson, etc. Table 1 reports the top 10 insti
tutional investors for Tenneco and its four major U.S. customers as of 2010 Q4. Among these institutional investors, Fidelity, Vanguard, 
and BlackRock hold equities in all five companies; Wellington and State Street hold four out of the five companies. In sum, Tenneco and 
its major customers all have a similar structure of top institutional investors. It is interesting to assess the impact of common owners on 
the firms in their holding portfolios. 

To the extent that common owners may aim to maximize portfolio value instead of a single firm’s value, they could attempt to 
maximize portfolio value by mitigating the conflicts between the firms in the portfolios. A growing literature has examined the anti- 

E-mail address: xian.chen@cnu.edu.  

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pacfin.2024.102478 
Received 4 October 2023; Received in revised form 1 July 2024; Accepted 5 August 2024   
Available online 6 August 2024
0927-538X/© 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Table 1 
Top 10 Institutional Investors of Tenneco and its Major U.S. Customers as of 2010 Q4.  

Tenneco Caterpillar Ford Motor 

Institution  Institution  Institution  

Fidelity 13.70% State Street 12.02% Evercore 7.25% 
Vanguard 4.97% Vanguard 4.03% Wellington 4.43 
Blackrock 4.92% Blackrock 3.82% Blackrock 3.62% 
Wellington 4.23% Fidelity 3.28% Janus Capital 3.44% 
Westfield Capital 3.39% State Farm 3.13% State Street 3.39% 
Columbia Management 3.05% Capital World 1.86% Vanguard 3.33% 
Next Century 2.85% Mellon Bank 1.59% Axa Financial 2.33% 
Gamco 2.80% Bill&Melinda Gates 1.52% Fidelity 1.81% 
Iridian 2.51% Northern Trust 1.31% Mellon Bank 1.37% 
State Street 2.24% Primecap 1.30% Capital Growth 1.11%   

Navistar Harley Davidson 

Institution  Institution  

Fidelity 12.52% David Selected 10.58% 
Owl Creek 8.01% Capital Research 7.63% 
Wellington 6.67% Vanguard 4.98% 
Blackrock 4.41% Wellington 4.64% 
Gamco 4.29% Fidelity 4.50% 
Vanguard 4.21% Blackrock 4.00% 
Oppenheimer 3.33% T Row Price 3.56% 
Deutsche Bank 2.36% State Street 3.54% 
Frontier Capital 2.26% Independent Franchise 1.53% 
Columbia Management 2.10% MFS Investment 1.41% 

This table reports the top 10 institutional investors for Tenneco and its four major U.S. customers as of 2010 Q4. Tenneco is a designer and 
manufacturer of emissions and ride-control products. Its major U.S. customers include Caterpillar, Ford Motor, Navistar, and Harley Davidson. Among 
the institutional investors, Fidelity, Vanguard, and BlackRock hold all five companies; Wellington and State Street hold four out of the five companies. 

competitive effects of common holdings of competitors (e.g., He and Huang, 2017; Azar et al., 2018). The potential anti-competitive 
effects have also led to debates among legal scholars and economists concerning anti-trust regulations for institutional investors (e.g., 
Elhauge, 2015; Bebchuk and Hirst, 2019). Nevertheless, the relationships between the firms in common owners’ portfolios are quite 
complex, including not only competitors but also collaborators. Studies of common owners’ influence on other relationships in their 
portfolios, for example, suppliers and customers, can lead to a new perspective for more comprehensive examinations of common 
ownership, and may adjust scholars’ and regulators’ negative opinions about common ownership. However, very few studies have 
assessed the effects of common ownership of suppliers and customers. Moreover, the existing literature has largely overlooked an 
important impact of common ownership: its effects on corporate investment decisions. In this paper, I focus on the impact of supplier- 
customer common holdings on a special type of corporate investment — technological innovation, which is critical for a firm’s long- 
term competitive advantage and sustainable growth (Porter, 1992). 

Although common ownership may in principle affect the innovation activities of both suppliers and customers, I focus in this paper 
on the activities of suppliers because suppliers are generally more innovation active than customers reported in commonly available 
databases. In contrast, a lot of customers, such as firms in the retail industry, are generally dormant in innovation.1 Furthermore, it is 
important to study suppliers’ innovation activities because upstream innovation is crucial along the supply chain. It has a strong 
impact on downstream firms and acts as a double-edged sword. On one hand, it can devalue customers’ assets-in-place through vertical 
creative destruction (Gofman et al., 2020), but on the other hand, collaboration with innovative suppliers is an important way to 
improve customers’ own innovation performance (Huston and Sakkab, 2006; Henke and Zhang, 2010). 

Common ownership of suppliers and customers could affect suppliers’ innovations through a number of plausible channels. The 
first one is the hold-up mitigation channel. Customized innovations by suppliers lead to products for specific customers. These 
relationship-specific projects are not easily marketed or used elsewhere. Therefore, concerns over possible opportunism and hold-up 
behavior of the customer will lead to underinvestment in (relationship-specific) innovation by the supplier (Klein et al., 1978). Some 
seminal theoretical studies (e.g., Grossman and Hart, 1986; Hart and Moore, 1990) suggest that joint asset ownership attenuates hold- 
up problems under conditions of asset specificity and ex-ante incomplete contracting. As one type of joint asset ownership, common 
owners could actually benefit from improved supplier innovation performance resulting from better supplier-customer relationships, 
because the positive spillovers of supplier innovations towards customers help increase the value of the entire portfolio. Therefore, 

1 In untabulated results, I also test the impact of common ownership on innovation-active customers. The sample size of innovation-active 
customers is much smaller than that for suppliers because the dataset I use, Compustat Customer Segment, reports only the major customers 
(the sales value to the customer constitutes at least 10% of its supplier’s total sales) for each supplier. And I find no statistically significant results. 

2



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

common owners could be motivated to lower the likelihood for hold-up problems to occur, thereby improving suppliers’ innovation 
performance, especially their investment in (relationship-specific) innovation activities. 

The second plausible channel through which vertical common ownership may affect supplier innovation is the technological 
spillover channel. Manso (2011)’s principal-agent model proposes that timely feedback from the principal to the agent enhances the 
agent’s innovation. Consistently, Chu et al. (2019) provide empirical evidence that timely feedback from customers to suppliers is one 
of the potential channels that improve suppliers’ innovation performance. Past empirical studies imply that common ownership fa
cilitates information exchange about technological innovation between the held firms. In particular, common ownerships increase the 
cross-citations between the patents assigned to different firms in the same portfolio (Freeman, 2021; Kostovetsky and Manconi, 2020). 
By increasing information exchange between suppliers and customers, common ownership could lead to more technological spillovers 
between customers and suppliers, and consequently improved innovation performance by suppliers. 

The third channel is a vertical creative destruction channel. Vertical creative destruction describes the situation that innovations by 
suppliers can devalue customers’ assets-in-place (Gofman et al., 2020). Common owners tend to internalize all the externalities 
imposed to firms held in the same portfolio (Hansen and Lott, 1996), so they might also react to the negative impact due to vertical 
creative destruction by weakening suppliers’ innovation activities. 

Using the Compustat customer segment dataset, I match each supplier to its principal customers from 1980 to 2010.2 I examine the 
impact of institutional common holdings of both suppliers and customers on the suppliers’ innovation activities along three di
mensions: inputs to innovation (measured by R&D intensity), quantity of innovation output (measured by the number of patent ap
plications), and quality of innovation output (measured by the average market value of patents). The baseline regression analyses show 
that suppliers’ innovation input, quantity and quality of innovation output all increase significantly when institutional common 
owners are holding higher fractions of the equity issued by suppliers and their principal customers. This result is robust to alternative 
common ownership measures based on different assumptions about institutional investors’ attention. The effect of vertical common 
ownership on innovation activities is different from that of horizontal common ownership. In particular, vertical common ownership 
has a stronger and more robust impact on innovation input and quality of innovation output. 

Nevertheless, institutions do not randomly invest in firms. A potential endogeneity concern is that institutions could choose to 
invest in firms with good innovation prospects. In addition, other omitted variables, such as managerial traits, could drive both 
common ownership and supplier innovation. To mitigate those potential endogeneity concerns, I exploit a quasi-natural experiment 
based on financial institution mergers and acquisitions (M&As) with both difference-in-differences (DiD) and instrument variable (IV) 
approaches following He and Huang (2017) and Azar et al. (2018). M&As of financial institutions lead acquirers to hold more firms in 
their portfolios. As a result, potentially more suppliers and customers will be commonly held by the acquirers. M&As of financial 
institutions thus cause mechanical increments of vertical common ownership. Meanwhile, M&As of financial institutions are not likely 
to be driven mainly by an intent to affect corporate innovation. Therefore, such M&As can be used as a plausibly exogenous reason for 
changes of common ownership. The DiD analysis shows that the treated firms, relative to control firms, experience about 2% higher 
increase in R&D intensity, 9% higher increase in patent applications, and 9% higher increase in average patent value after the financial 
institution mergers. The analysis using the instrumental variable approach leads to a similar result. 

All these findings suggest that there exist positive, and plausibly causal, effects of supplier vertical common ownership on supplier 
innovation activities. Next, I examine potential channels through which vertical common ownership could affect supplier’s in
novations. First, I test the hold-up channel. If common ownership actually affects suppliers’ innovation activities by mitigating the 
hold-up issues, I expect to find that the impact is less pronounced for firms with fewer hold-up problems in the first place. I construct 
three proxies for hold-up issues: (1) the supplier’s vertical integration with its operating segments, (2) the supplier’s bargaining power 
relative to its customers, and (3) the asset specificity of the supplier’s input to customers. Consistent with the prediction, I find that the 
impact of common ownership on innovation activities is weaker for suppliers that (1) are more vertically integrated, (2) have stronger 
bargaining power relative to their customers, and (3) supply to customers using assets that are more easily redeployed. 

Second, I test the technological spillover channel. If technological spillover is the underlying force for common ownership to 
improve supplier innovation activities, I expect that the impact is stronger for suppliers with higher technology proximity to their 
customers. I find results consistent with this prediction. 

Third, I test the vertical creative destruction channel. The vertical creative destruction effect should be the strongest if the suppliers 
are capital-goods producers. Consistently, I find that vertical common ownership can potentially weaken innovation output for sup
pliers in capital-producing industries and the positive association between vertical common ownership and innovation output exists 
only for intermediate-goods producers. 

Interestingly, I find that common ownership mainly influences innovation input (i.e., investment in innovation) through the hold- 
up mitigation channel, and affects innovation output (both quantity and quality) through the technological spillover and vertical 
creative destruction channels. The findings suggest that these three channels work on different aspects of innovation activities. 
Mitigation of hold-up issues increases the incentive to invest but does not necessarily increase innovation efficiency. In contrast, 
improved technological spillovers as well as vertical creative destruction work mainly on increasing innovation efficiency, but have 
little influence on investment in innovation. 

In addition, I also test the relation between common ownership and patent cross-citations at supplier-customer level. I find that 
common ownership at the firm-pair level mainly increases the citations from suppliers to their customers. This finding is potentially 

2 Due to the quality issues of Thomson 13f ownership data starting in 2010, the data sample ends in 2010 for more reliable empirical results. More 
discussions in 3.1 Sample Construction. 

3



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

consistent with both channels. On one hand, citations from suppliers towards customers could imply technological information 
spreading from customers to suppliers, which suggests that common ownership improves technological spillovers between suppliers 
and customers. On the other hand, it could imply suppliers’ customized innovation towards customers, suggesting common ownership 
improves relationship-specific innovation. Furthermore, I find that the citations from suppliers to their customers are more likely to be 
a proxy for relationship-specific innovation, because common ownership has a significantly weaker impact on citations when the 
intensity of hold-up issues is lower. This finding provides additional evidence that common ownership could mitigate hold- up issues, 
thereby leading to more relationship-specific innovation. 

This study contributes to four strands of literature. First, this study contributes to the emerging literature on common ownership. 
The literature on common ownership focuses mainly on its anti-competitive effects on corporate policies and product markets (e.g., 
Ant’on et al., 2018; Azar et al., 2018), but ignores its potential positive effects. Freeman (2021) shows that common ownership can 
improve cooperation between suppliers and customers, and my paper provides evidence for the bright side of common ownership 
through its impact on supplier innovation. 

Second, this study contributes to the literature on hold-up problems. While theoretical analysis on this topic is extensive (e.g., 
Grossman and Hart, 1986; Hart and Moore, 1990), empirical evidence is scarce, and focuses mainly on vertical integration as one 
potential solution to mitigate hold-up problems (e.g., Lafontaine and Slade, 2007). In the absence of vertical integration, partial equity 
holdings can also improve relationships along the supply chain. For example, Edward Fee et al. (2006) show that when the customer 
owns an equity stake in its supplier, the relationship lasts longer. This study investigates an alternative method to mitigate hold-up 
problems based on integration through a third party, i.e., institutional investors. 

Third, this study contributes to the literature on the impacts of supply-chain relationships on corporate decisions. The past liter
ature has assessed how supplier- customer relationships affect corporate financing decisions, such as capital structure (Kale and 
Shahrur, 2007; Banerjee et al., 2008; Chu, 2012) and the cost of debt (Cen et al., 2016a). Chu et al. (2019) show the geographic 
proximity between a customer and its suppliers can enhance firm innovation. This study examines how improved supplier-customer 
relationships, on the basis of vertical common ownership, could influence corporate innovation activities. 

Lastly, this study contributes to the literature on corporate innovation by finding another potential determinant for corporate 
innovation. One of the drivers of corporate innovation is variation in ownership structure, such as the formation of strategic alliances 
(Chemmanur et al., 2016) and hedge fund activism (Brav et al., 2018). This paper examines a more general form of ownership structure 
(institutional common ownership of suppliers and customers) that takes into account all types of institutions. 

A significant body of academic work has expressed serious concern about the potential anti-competitive effects of common 
ownership. Some legal scholars propose strong anti-trust measures on institutional investors, such as limiting investment managers’ 
holdings in each economic sector, and having regulators scrutinize the behavior of common owners (e.g., Posner et al., 2016; Scott 
Morton and Hovenkamp, 2017). The findings of this paper shed light upon the brighter side of common ownership. Regulators may 
motivate institutional investors to hold firms in different sectors along the supply chain, thereby mitigating the anti-competitive ef
fects, and obtaining extra benefit by improving collaboration between upstream and downstream firms. 

The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 discusses the antecedent literature. Section 3 describes sample construction 
and reports summary statistics. Section 4 presents the analyses and results covering the relationship between common ownership and 
suppliers’ innovations, including baseline regressions, identification, and additional tests. Section 5 presents the analyses and the 
results of the potential channels through which vertical common ownership could influence suppliers’ innovations. Section 6 
concludes. 

2. Literature review and hypotheses development 

2.1. Related literature 

2.1.1. Common ownership 
One basic assumption in financial economics is that the ultimate goal of firm management is to maximize shareholders’ value. 

When shareholders are holding multiple firms in their portfolios, value optimization is no longer focused on a single firm, but the entire 
portfolio. The past literature has suggested that shareholder diversification can induce managers to internalize all types of externalities 
(including technological innovation, legal litigation, etc.) imposed on commonly owned firms (e.g., Hansen and Lott, 1996; Gordon, 
2003). However, there are concerns about the mechanisms whereby common owners coordinate the firms in their portfolio, especially 
when the shareholder is a passive investment fund that holds massive numbers of firms in its portfolio. The emerging empirical 
literature has provided support for multiple potential channels, including voice, vote, and incentives. Azar et al. (2018) discuss 
anecdotal evidence for a voice channel, including engagement meetings between “passive” funds and portfolio firm managers. He et al. 
(2019) show that common owners (including both passive and active funds) are more likely to vote against management on 
shareholder-sponsored governance proposals. Regarding incentives, Ant’on et al. (2018) show that common owners have rendered the 
compensation of top managers less sensitive to firm performance. 

Based on the plausible mechanisms discussed above, past studies have documented the impacts of common ownership on various 
aspects of corporate policies, such as mergers and acquisitions (Matvos and Ostrovsky, 2008), product market competition (Azar et al., 
2018; Azar et al., 2019), technological spillover (Kostovetsky and Manconi, 2020), and financing friction (Cici et al., 2015; Ojeda, 
2018). Among all these studies, my paper is most closely related to research about the impact of common ownership on vertically 
related firms. For example, Freeman (2021) shows that vertical common ownership can improve duration of relationships between 
suppliers and customers and tests innovative collaborations as a potential channel. My study differs from prior studies in this area by 

4



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

(a) examining the impact of vertical common ownership on different aspects of corporate innovation activities and (b) exploring 
potential channels for the results. 

Among all the studies in this area, my paper is most relevant to Geng et al. (2017)’s work. They define companies with cited patents 
as upstream firms and define companies with patents citing the upstream firms as downstream firms. They then examine how the joint 
ownership of upstream and downstream firms mitigates patent hold-up problems. In contrast, my paper studies the joint ownership of 
suppliers and their customers along the supply chain. 

2.1.2. Hold-up problem 
The hold-up problem as first described by Williamson (1975) and Klein et al. (1978) has been accepted by economists as a 

determinant of corporate underinvestment (e.g., Ellingsen and Johannesson, 2004). A hold-up problem occurs to the party in a 
transaction with two factors: (1) relation-specific investments and (2) an incomplete contract (Rogerson, 1992). Factor (1) implies that 
the investment produces (employs) customized products for specific customers (from specific suppliers). The customized products 
largely increase the bargaining power of the counterparty in the transaction, because if the counterparty ends the transaction, the 
customized products and the related investment will devalue substantially as it is difficult to use these products elsewhere. Ideally, a 
complete contract will preclude the potential counterparty opportunism.3 However, in reality, because of bounded rationality and 
economic uncertainty, it is never possible to write a complete contract ex-ante.4 Together with factor (1), factor (2) implies that, under 
an incomplete contract, there could be chances for a contractual party to act opportunistically, thereby leading to significant losses for 
the counterparty with relation-specific investment for this transaction. Such a situation will definitely deter relation-specific 
investment. 

A well-known example of the hold-up problem for the customer side is between General Motors (GM) and Fisher Body (Hart, 1995). 
Fisher Body was the only company to deliver the components according to GM’s specifications. In 1920, a sharp increase in demand 
occurred that was above the contractual expectation. It is claimed that Fisher Body held up GM by increasing the price for additional 
parts produced. My study is related more to the hold-up problem for the supplier side. A good example is that ship leasing firms 
(threaten to) cancel (already established) shipbuilding contracts with shipyards because of “non-permissible” delays in production due 
to COVID-19.5 

Since it is costly to write a comprehensive contract listing all specific rights over assets in the contract, Grossman and Hart (1986) 
suggest, in their seminal theoretical work, that it may be optimal to let one contractual party purchase all residual rights in the form of 
ownership. Therefore, ownership integration is a way to reduce opportunistic behavior and hold-up problems under the condition of 
ex-ante incomplete contracting (Hart and Moore, 1990). Lafontaine and Slade (2007) review the studies on the effects of vertical 
integration. In the absence of vertical integration, Edward Fee et al. (2006) show that partial equity holdings can also improve re
lationships along the supply chain. My paper differs from other studies in this area by assessing a different type of integration in the 
form of common ownership. 

It is empirically challenging to test the hold-up problem since it occurs under unobservable conditions. Martin and Otto (2017) is 
one of the very few studies to empirically test the effect of a hold-up problem. In particular, they use tariff changes in suppliers’ in
dustries as a shock for customers’ hold-up issues and study how customers respond in terms of investment. In contrast, my research 
examines suppliers’ responses to various levels of hold-up problems and focuses on a special type of investment: investment in 
innovation activities. 

2.1.3. Supply chain 
Similar to studies on the hold-up problem, studies on the role of supply-chain relationships in corporate finance also stem from the 

seminal theoretical studies on transaction costs between upstream and downstream firms (e.g., Williamson, 1975; Hart and Moore, 
1990). The literature in this area extends the empirical analysis to more specific determinants of supply-chain relationships besides 
corporate integration, such as mergers and acquisitions (Edward Fee and Thomas, 2004; Shahrur, 2005), partial integration (Edward 
Fee et al., 2006), financial distress (Hertzel et al., 2008), anti-takeover measures (Cen et al., 2016b), and CEO turnovers (Intintoli et al., 
2017). Another stream of this literature examines how supply-chain relationships may influence corporate financial decisions, such as 
capital structure (Kale and Shahrur, 2007; Banerjee et al., 2008; Chu, 2012) and the cost of debt (Cen et al., 2016a). 

The literature on the impacts of supply-chain relationships on corporate financial decisions is relatively scarce, especially con
cerning their impacts on real investment activities. Among all the studies in this area, my paper is most closely related to Chu et al. 

3 Williamson (1975) defines opportunism as an effort to realize individual gains with guile in transactions. It can have two types. The first type 
happens at the initial negotiation stage. One party can strategically disclose incomplete or distorted information to write the contract to her own 
advantage. The second type manifests itself during contract execution and renewal. The contractual parties may behave irresponsibly when lack of 
monitoring, or may pose problems at the contract renewal interval due to first-mover advantage. In particular, the first-mover advantage here means 
that winners of original bids acquire firm-specific experience which places them at a cost advantage in relation to non-winners on subsequent rounds 
of negotiation (Williamson, 1971).  

4 Bounded rationality refers to limited capacities of individuals to receive, store, retrieve, and process information without error. With cognitive 
limits, the economic actors cannot write contracts of unlimited complexity that would specify all possible contingencies in an economic exchange.  

5 Pandemic, such as COVID-19, is not specifically defined as a permissible situation for production delay in shipbuilding contracts, especially 
under English law. More details can be found in BIMCO’s explanations on its website. BIMCO is the largest of the international shipping associations 
representing shipowners. 

5



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

(2019)’s work. They demonstrate that geographic proximity between suppliers and customers can improve corporate innovation. My 
research differs from their work by studying how improved supplier-customer relationships, due to common ownership, can influence 
innovation. 

2.1.4. Corporate innovation 
Manso (2011)’s theoretical study suggests that corporate innovation can be facilitated by (1) tolerance of failures and (2) timely 

feedback on performance. The empirical literature has widely studied how variations in ownership structure could affect corporate 
innovation through several potential channels: mergers and acquisitions (Bena and Li, 2014; Seru, 2014), formation of strategic al
liances (Chemmanur et al., 2016), venture capital (Tian and Wang, 2014; Chemmanur et al., 2014), and hedge fund activism (Brav 
et al., 2018). My paper examines the impact on corporate innovation of a new form of ownership structure, common ownership, and 
tests feedback between suppliers and customers as a potential channel. The work is most closely related to Anton et al. (2018)’s work. 
They theoretically analyze the impact of horizontal common ownership on corporate innovation. In contrast, this paper is the first one 
to empirically test the impact of vertical common ownership on innovation. 

2.1.5. Regulation implications 
The potential anti-competitive effects of common ownership have led to controversies over proposals for related regulations. 

Empirical studies have documented increases in product prices or decreased market entry due to common ownership in different 
sectors, such as airlines (Azar et al., 2018), banking (Azar et al., 2019), and pharmaceuticals (Newham et al., 2018). Some legal 
scholars claim that common ownership may disincentivize output and employment and increase economic inequality, so they propose 
strong anti-trust scrutiny for common owners (Elhauge, 2015; Posner et al., 2016; Scott Morton and Hovenkamp, 2017). 

On the contrary, some scholars suggest that the common ownership scrutiny should not be implemented for all investors, especially 
index funds (Bebchuk and Hirst, 2019). Index fund managers have weak incentives to engage in stewardship because their contri
butions to improve held firms’ performances will invite free riding by other investors. In addition, index fund managers have incentives 
to defer to the preferences of corporate managers because of potential business ties with corporate managers of the firms in portfolios 
(e.g., having the index funds included in the menu of investment options for 401(k) plans). 

My paper reports a bright side of common ownership, which implies potentially helpful regulatory measures: regulators may wish 
to encourage institutional investors to hold equities in different sectors along the supply chain. 

2.2. Development of hypotheses 

The main hypothesis is that vertical common ownership can enhance suppliers’ innovation performance by improving the rela
tionship between suppliers and their customers. In particular, I hypothesize that vertical common ownership can influence suppliers’ 
innovation through three potential channels. 

The first channel is hold-up mitigation channel. In my analytical framework, hold-up problems happen when suppliers invest in 
production of relation-specific products. This situation can potentially decrease the bargaining power of suppliers because it is hard to 
sell these specialized products to other customers.6 Therefore, customers may act opportunistically in their relationship with suppliers. 
For example, they may attempt to push down the prices of specialized inputs or (threaten to) cancel the order during a negative 
demand shock. These potential hold-up issues will lead to underinvestment in relation-specific investments/innovations. However, 
theoretical studies (e.g., Grossman and Hart, 1986; Hart and Moore, 1990) suggest that joint asset ownership, such as common 
ownership, can mitigate the hold-up issues. Therefore, I hypothesize that vertical common ownership can improve suppliers’ inno
vation performance by mitigating hold-up issues between suppliers and their customers. 

The second channel is a technological spillover channel. Both theoretical and empirical studies (e.g., Manso, 2011; Chu et al., 2019) 
suggest that the exchange of information about innovation activities can improve corporate innovation performance. Past studies also 
suggest that common ownership can improve rates of information exchange about corporate innovation activities. For example, 
Kostovetsky and Manconi (2020) show that common ownership can increase cross-citations between patents assigned to firms held in 
the same portfolio. Therefore, I hypothesize that vertical common ownership can improve suppliers’ innovation performance by 
improving technological spillovers between suppliers and their customers. 

The third channel is a vertical creative destruction channel. Vertical creative destruction describes a situation where innovations by 
suppliers can devalue customers’ assets-in-place (Gofman et al., 2020). For example, Nvidia supplies Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) 
to Amazon for its Amazon Web Services (AWS). AWS then uses Nvidia’s GPUs to accelerate artificial intelligence and high-performance 
computing workloads. An updated version of these GPUs, due to technological improvements by Nvidia, can devalue the existing old 
versions of GPUs used by Amazon. Theoretically, common owners tend to internalize all types of externalities imposed on the firms 
held in the same portfolio (Hansen and Lott, 1996), so they might also react to the negative effect due to vertical creative destruction. 
The impact of vertical creative destruction is strongest for capital-goods producers, so I hypothesize that vertical common ownership 
can weaken innovation activities, especially for suppliers in capital-producing industries. 

6 These relation-specific products can also cause hold-up issues for customers. In my data sample, however, a lot of the customers are retailers 
without investment in relation-specific inputs. It is thus easier for customers to get rid of the customized products because they do not have to suffer 
from a loss of sunk costs due to any relation-specific investments. 

6



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

3. Data and variable construction 

3.1. Sample construction 

The data sample is constructed from variables in four databases: Compustat Segment Customer, Thomson Reuters 13F, and Kogan 
et al. (2017)’s patent dataset. Supplier-customer relationships are identified from the Compustat Segment Customer database. Ac
cording to the FASB 14 (1976) and 131 (1997), public firms are required to disclose customers who account for at least 10% of their 
total sales. Some firms may opt to report significant customers below this threshold as well. The Segment database includes the names 
of corporate customers, as well as the supplier’s sales to each of its customers. 

Data on institutional ownership are drawn from the Thomson Reuters 13F database. This database includes institutional investors 
with over $100 million in assets under management. These institutions include pension funds, endowments, insurance companies, 
bank trusts, mutual funds, hedge funds and independent advisors. These data go back to 1980, and report holding fractions for each 
firm at fund family level at the end of each quarter. For a given firm, if its fiscal year end is not at quarter end, I use institutional 
holdings at the nearest quarter end prior to its fiscal year end to construct variables developed from information in this database. 
Starting in 2010, Thomson’s system generating 13f ownership data began losing and corrupting data. WRDS and Thomson have 
collaborated to correct some of the data quality issues.7 However, multiple studies still expressed additional concerns about the data 
quality, including data aggregation issues (e.g., Backus et al., 2019; Ben-David et al., 2021). To maintain a better reliability of the 
empirical results, the data sample ends in 2010. 

Data on patents are drawn from the dataset constructed by Kogan et al. (2017). The dataset matches patent numbers to firm 
identifier variables (CRSP “permco”) starting from 1926. This resource provides patent application dates, estimated market values of 
patents, and information on patent cross-citations. In particular, this dataset matches the citing patent numbers with the cited patent 
numbers. 

I generate supplier-level common ownership measures on the basis of the Segment and 13F datasets, and merge them with firm- 
level innovation variables generated from the datasets provided by Kogan et al. (2017). Then I merge the resulting data, by firm, with 
fundamental accounting variables from Compustat. I exclude utility firms (SIC code from 4900 to 4999) and financial firms (SIC code 
from 6000 to 6999) from the estimating sample because these two industries are highly regulated. I delete all the innovation-inactive 
firms that have no R&D expenditure or patent applications throughout the sample period. All variables in the form of ratios are 
winsorized at the 1st and 99th percentiles to minimize distortions due to outliers. This variable construction procedure results in an 
estimating sample consisting of 17,063 firm-year observations from 1980 to 2010. 

3.2. Variable construction 

3.2.1. Common ownership measures 
Following the recent literature on common ownership (e.g., He and Huang, 2017; Lewellen and Lowry, 2021), I first construct my 

firm-pair level measure of common ownership along a supply chain (i.e., vertical common ownership), called pairwise VCO, as: 
∑F

pairwise VCOsct = β β
f=1 fst fct  

where there are F institutions holding both supplier s and its customer c. βfs(c)t denotes institution f ‘s holding fraction of supplier s 
(customer c) in year t. The value of pairwise VCO is higher when there are more common owners and/or when these common owners 
hold higher fractions of suppliers and/or customers. 

Then, I aggregate pairwise VCO to the level of supplier s to construct VCO as: 
∑C

VCOst = w pairwise VCO
c c
=1 ct s t  

where there are C customers for supplier s. The weight wct denotes customer c’s relative share among all the supplier’s customers in 
year t. I employ both equal weights and value weights on the basis of sales value between the supplier and each customer. 

As documented in numerous studies (e.g., Schmalz, 2018; Ben-David et al., 2021), financial institutions hold an increasing share of 
corporate equities because of the rapid development of highly diversified mutual funds and other institutional investors in the past 
decades. Echoing the previous findings, Figs. 1 and 2 display noticeable growing trends in the number of common owners and holding 
fractions of both suppliers and customers from 1980 to 2010. As a result, the value of average VCO in Fig. 3 also exhibits an increasing 
trend over the sample period. 

3.2.2. Innovation measures 
As mentioned earlier in Introduction, corporate innovation activities are typically measured along three dimensions: innovation 

input, quantity of innovation output, and quality of innovation output. Innovation input is measured by R&D Intensity, which is R&D 
expenditures per unit of sales. 

The quantity of innovation output is measured by the number of patent applications submitted (and eventually granted) at the firm- 

7 See more details in the WRDS file S12/S34 Regenerated Data (2010-2016). 

7



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Fig. 1. Average number of institutions holding each supplier-customer pair from 1980 to 2010. 
Fig. 1 displays the time series for the average number of institutions that are commonly holding each supplier-customer pair in the data sample from 
1980 to 2010. Fig. 2 displays the time series of average common owners’ holding fractions of suppliers and customers from 1980 to 2010. Fig. 3 
displays the time series of average vertical common ownership from 1980 to 2010. The market-level vertical common ownership in the graph is the 
average VCO weighted by firm market value. 

Fig. 2. Average common owners’ holding fractions of suppliers and customers from 1980 to 2010.  

year level. On average, there is more than a two-year lag between applications and grant years. The recorded application year thus 
better captures the actual time of innovation than the eventual grant year. 

Many innovation studies use a patent’s subsequent lifetime citations as the proxy for quality of innovation output. By that measure, 
however, the number of citations for patents filed near the end of sample period is highly truncated. Hall et al. (2001) therefore attempt 
to mitigate the truncation problem by adjusting subsequent citations based on structural models. However, the current literature 
empirically demonstrates that this adjustment method does not work well (Dass et al., 2017). Kogan et al. (2017) provide another 
proxy for the quality of innovation output by measuring the market response to patent grants. In this study, the quality of innovation 
output is measured by the average market value of patents at the firm-year level. Kogan et al. (2017) estimate these patent market 
values and provide the data used in this analysis. 

3.2.3. Control variables 
To net out any potential confounding effects from other institutional ownership measures, I control the percentage of total insti

tutional holdings (IO) and the concentration of institutional holdings (IO HHI) at the firm level. Following other studies in the 
innovation literature (e.g., Atanassov and Liu, 2019), I control for other firm-level variables including Q, sales, leverage, profitability, 
and capital intensity. More details about control variable construction are in Appendix A. 

8



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Fig. 3. Average vertical common ownership (weighted by firm size) from 1980 to 2010.  

3.3. Summary statistics 

Table 2 reports summary statistics for the main variables used in this paper. An average supplier has R&D intensity of 0.42 and 
14.29 patent applications each year, and each patent’s inferred market value averages $8.16 million. Given that the innovation 
measures are skewed, I use shifted natural logarithms of these measures in my analyses. The average value of vertical common 
ownership (VCO) is 0.0019. On average, 27% of a supplier’s equity is held by institutional investors, and the concentration of insti
tutional holdings (i.e., HHI of institutional holding) is 0.14.8 

4. The relationship between common ownership and suppliers’ innovation activities 

4.1. Baseline regressions and results 

To assess the relationship between vertical common ownership and suppliers’ innovation activities, I estimate the baseline 
regression: 

Innovationit = β0 + β1VCOi,t− 1 + β2Xi,t− 1 + αi +αtj + εit,

where Innovation is one of the innovation activity measures (i.e., ln(1 + R&D Intensity), ln(1 + #pat), and ln(1 + Avg.xi)), VCO is the 
supplier-level proxy for vertical common ownership on the basis of both equal weights and sales-value weights, and X is a vector of 
control variables that could systematically affect corporate innovation activities.9 All explanatory variables are lagged one year to 
mitigate simultaneity. The αi captures firm-level fixed effects which control for any observable or unobservable heterogeneity across 
firms that affect innovation activities (e.g., corporate culture that encourages innovation). The αtj captures industry-year fixed effects 
which rule out spurious associations between vertical common ownership and innovation activities due to time-varying industry-level 
shocks. Standard errors are clustered at the industry level in case variations of firm-level innovation activities are correlated within 
industries because of industry-level technological innovation shocks or technological collaboration among peer firms in the industry. 

Table 3 reports the results of baseline regressions. Columns (1) and (2) show the results when the dependent variable is innovation 
input, ln(1 + R&D Intensity), with equally weighted and value-weighted VCO. The coefficient estimates on the two types of VCO are 
both positive and statistically significant at the 5% and 1% levels respectively, suggesting a positive association between a supplier’s 
vertical common ownership and the supplier’s innovation input. The economic effect is sizeable: a one standard deviation increase in 
equally (value-) weighted VCO is associated with a 3.27% (2.19%) increase in R&D intensity. 

Columns (3) and (4) show the results when the dependent variable is the quantity of innovation output measured by ln(1 + #pat). 
The coefficient estimates on the two types of VCO are again positive and statistically significant at the 1% level, suggesting a positive 
association between a supplier’s vertical common ownership and the supplier’s quantity of innovation output. The effect is also 
economically large: a one standard deviation increase in equally (value-) weighted VCO is associated with a 10.85% (10.39%) increase 
in the number of successful patent applications. 

8 The market-level institutional holding percentage (market-cap weighted average) increases from around 30% to around 60% from 1980 to 2010. 
However, the institutional holding percentages are higher for large market-cap firms, and the supplier firms in my sample in general are small in 
size. Therefore, the average firm-level institutional ownership percentage in the sample period is relatively small.  

9 The data on patent market values are estimated and provided by Kogan et al. (2017). They denote patent market value as xi. 

9



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Table 2 
Summary Statistics.   

count mean s.d. 

Innovation    
R&D Intensity 17,045 0.421 1.345 
ln(1 + #pat) 17,063 1.022 1.346 
#pat 17,063 14.29 90.69 
ln(1 + Avg.xi) 17,063 0.953 1.269 
Avg.xi ($mil) 17,063 8.160 31.78 
Common Ownership     

VCO (EW)  17,063  0.002  0.003 
VCO (VW) 17,063 0.002 0.003 
Controls     

IO HHI  17,063  0.141  0.207 
IO 17,063 0.270 0.292 
Q 15,770 2.405 2.241 
ln(Sales) 17,043 4.452 2.248 
Capital Intensity 17,057 0.219 0.162 
Profitability 17,019 0.011 0.285 
Leverage 17,000 0.196 0.234 

This table reports summary statistics for the main variables used in this paper. R&D Intensity is R&D expenditure scaled 
by sales. #pat is the number of patent applications (for patents eventually granted) at the firm-year level. Avg.xi is the 
average market value of patents at the firm-year level. VCO is the supplier-level vertical common ownership, which is 
calculated as the weighted average of supplier-customer-pair-level common ownership for each supplier. I use both equal 
weights (EW) and value weights (VW) on the basis of sales from a supplier to each of its customers. IO is the percentage of 
total institutional holdings. IO HHI is the proxy for institutional ownership concentration, which is calculated as the 
Herfindahl–Hirschman Index of institutional holdings. Q is the market value of total assets divided by book value of total 
assets. Capital Intensity is net PPE divided by total assets. Profitability is EBITDA divided by total assets. Leverage is total 
debt divided by total assets. 

Lastly, columns (5) and (6) show the results when the dependent variable is the quality of innovation output measured by ln(1 +
Avg.xi). The coefficient estimates on the two types of VCO are still positive and statistically significant at the 1% level, suggesting a 
positive association between a supplier’s vertical common ownership and the supplier’s quality of innovation output. The economic 
effect is large: a one standard deviation increase of equally (value-) weighted VCO is associated with a 5.83% (5.58%) increase in 
average patent market value, which corresponds to a $0.42 million increase in value. 

Overall, the baseline results in Table 3 show that, on average, a supplier’s vertical common ownership has a significant effect on the 
supplier’s innovation activities. Suppliers’ innovation input, quantity and quality of innovation output all rise significantly when the 
value of suppliers’ vertical common ownership increases. Based on the construction of VCO, a higher value of vertical common 
ownership implies that more institutions hold higher fractions of equities in both the supplier and its customers. 

4.2. Identification using mergers of financial institutions 

The baseline regression results provide evidence concerning significant associations between vertical common ownership and 
supplier innovation activities. However, there are still several qualifications with respect to these findings. First, these specifications 
cannot exclude other unobservable confounding factors that covary with common ownership. Second, they cannot exclude the pos
sibility of reverse causality. It is possible that common owners intentionally search for and invest in firms with better innovation 
performances. Therefore, I follow the current literature (e.g., He and Huang, 2017; Azar et al., 2018) to implement an event study 
based on financial institution mergers and acquisitions (M&As) to more rigorously assess the causality between variations in common 
ownership and changes in supplier innovation activities. 

4.2.1. Quasi-experimental design 
M&As among financial institutions are plausibly exogenous shocks relative to common ownership. M&As allow the acquirers to 

hold more firms, or higher fractions of firms, in their portfolios, thereby leading to mechanical increments in common ownership for 
the firms in the merged portfolios. This quasi-experimental design satisfies the exclusion condition. The M&As between financial 
institutions are complex and mainly driven by the intention to extend business lines and increase market shares in the financial service 
industry. It is unlikely that one institution will acquire another mainly aiming to affect a few suppliers’ innovation activities in their 
portfolios. In addition, I consider multiple events to permit tests of the average effects of these shocks. Even if some of the financial 
institutional M&As could be driven by a desire to affect the corporate innovation of firms in their portfolios, such idiosyncratic cases 
are unlikely to have significant impacts on the overall average result. Thus, concerns about endogeneity when using financial in
stitutions M&As to study corporate innovation are likely to be minimized. 

I follow He and Huang (2017) to identify instances of M&As in financial institutions, in the 30 years from 1980 to 2010, from the 

10



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Table 3 
Baseline Regression.   

ln(1 + R&D Intensity) ln(1 + #pat) ln(1 + Avg.xi)  

EW VW EW VW EW VW 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 

VCO 3.234** 2.158*** 33.810*** 32.371*** 17.312*** 16.557***  
(2.613) (3.010) (4.263) (4.027) (2.892) (2.695) 

IO HHI − 0.034 − 0.034 − 0.036 − 0.035 0.051 0.051  
(− 1.204) (− 1.202) (− 0.691) (− 0.679) (1.056) (1.059) 

IO 0.096* 0.101* 0.109 0.116 0.197* 0.200*  
(1.849) (1.822) (0.985) (1.036) (1.828) (1.813) 

Q − 0.008** − 0.008** 0.018** 0.018** 0.036*** 0.036***  
(− 2.110) (− 2.105) (2.176) (2.157) (4.719) (4.725) 

ln(Sales) − 0.076* − 0.076* 0.277*** 0.278*** 0.157*** 0.157***  
(− 1.965) (− 1.968) (3.841) (3.836) (11.234) (10.959) 

Capital Intensity 0.016 0.016 0.222* 0.224* 0.125 0.126  
(0.417) (0.407) (1.968) (1.976) (1.034) (1.041) 

Profitability − 0.070** − 0.070** − 0.180*** − 0.181*** − 0.039 − 0.039  
(− 2.483) (− 2.480) (− 2.943) (− 2.952) (− 0.739) (− 0.745) 

Leverage − 0.081** − 0.081** − 0.373*** − 0.371*** − 0.184*** − 0.183***  
(− 2.539) (− 2.552) (− 5.793) (− 5.720) (− 3.116) (− 3.069) 

Constant 0.545*** 0.543*** − 0.217 − 0.220 0.165** 0.163**  
(3.136) (3.142) (− 0.614) (− 0.619) (2.329) (2.271) 

Obs. 10,741 10,741 10,751 10,751 10,751 10,751 
R-squared 0.842 0.842 0.841 0.840 0.809 0.809 
Firm FE Y Y Y Y Y Y 
Ind.-Yr. FE Y Y Y Y Y Y 

This table reports the baseline regression results for the model: 
Innovationit = β0 + β1VCOi,t− 1 + β2Xi,t− 1 +αi + αjt + εit   

The dependent variables are ln(1 + R&D Intensity) in columns (1) and (2), ln(1 + #pat) in columns (3) and (4), and ln(1 + Avg.xi) in columns (5) and 
(6). The supplier-level variable VCO is the equally weighted average of supplier-customer-pair-level vertical common ownership in columns (1), (3) 
and (5); and the sales-value weighted average in columns (2), (4) and (6). Details about the control variables are in Appendix A. Both firm and 
industry-year fixed effects are included in all regressions. Standard errors are clustered at the industry level. t-statistics are reported in parentheses 
below coefficient estimates. Significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level is denoted by *, **, and ***, respectively.  

Capital IQ dataset. The sample inclusion criteria are:  

1. The merger is between two 13F institutions (or their parent firms) in the financial sector (with primary SIC codes in the 6000 to 
6999 range) and announced during the period between 1980 and 2010;  

2. The merger is completed within one year after the initial announcement;  
3. The target institution stops filing 13F forms within one year after the completion of the deal. 

Altogether, I collect 51 such events between 1980 and 2010. The names of acquirers and targets, the announcement dates, and the 
effective dates are listed in Appendix B. 

I follow Azar et al. (2018)’s method to identify the treated group by checking the implied changes of common ownership for each 
firm. First, I calculate counterfactual VCO in the year before the announcement year of M&As as if the M&As had already happened at 
that time. Then, the differences between the counterfactual VCO and real VCO are defined as “implied changes in VCO” (ΔVCO). Firms 
are categorized on the basis of ΔVCO: the firms in the top tercile of ΔVCO are considered to be treated firms, and the firms in the bottom 
tercile of ΔVCO are considered to be control firms. I calculate ΔVCO on the basis of pre-merger hypothetical VCO, rather than post- 
merger actual VCO, because this method constructs an ex-ante measure of mechanical changes of VCO due to institutional mergers. The 
hypothetical pre-merger VCO is less endogenous than the actual post-merger VCO because it is less likely to be influenced by the 
investors’ reaction to the merger during the event year. 

Appendix B shows that there are M&A events in consecutive years, and the treatment effects could last for multiple years. 
Therefore, the observations in a given event can be affected by (lagged) treatment effects of other events. In particular, the distortions 
due to treatment effects of other events would be potentially reflected from three perspectives. First, in the pre-event window of a given 
event, some firms in the treatment or control group could be in the treatment group in other events. As a result, for this specific event, 
the parallel trends between treatment and control groups in the pre-event window will no longer hold. Second, in the post-event 
window of a given event, some firms in the control group could be in the treatment groups in other events. As a result, for this spe
cific event, the difference between control and treatment groups in the post-event window will be biased downward. Third, in the post- 
event window of a given event, some firms in the treatment group could be in the treatment groups in other events. As a result, for this 

11



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

specific event, the difference between control and treatment groups in the post-event window will be biased upward. 
To mitigate the distortions due to other events, I follow Gormley and Matsa (2011)’s method to stack the data sample of multiple 

events. First, a 5-year pre- event and 5-year post-event window is set around each merger. For a specific merger, any firms that are 
treated by other mergers within the 11-year window are dropped. Thereby a data sample for the specific merger is constructed. Then, I 
stack the constructed data samples for all the mergers into one dataset. To keep the 11-year windows for all events in my following 
regression analyses, the stacked data sample only covers the mergers from 1985 to 2005. Using mergers during the financial crisis from 
2008 to 2009 could contaminate the empirical results because of substantial changes in firm or industry behavior in response to the 
crisis (Lewellen and Lowry, 2021). My data sample avoids that concern as well. 

4.2.2. DiD regressions and results 
The treated firms are exposed to higher common ownership increments due to the financial institutional M&As, so I expect that 

these events will lead the treated firms to have a larger increase in innovation input and output. I run the following difference-in- 
differences (DiD) regression to test the hypothesis: 

Innovationijt = β0 + β1 Treatmentij ×Postjt + β2Xijt + αij +αtj + εijt ,

where Treatmentij is a dummy variable that equals one if firm i is the treated firm in merger j. Postjt is a dummy variable that equals one 
if year t is in the post-event period for merger j. X is the vector of control variables. The institutional ownership concentration (IO HHI) 
and the percentage of total institutional holdings (IO) are excluded from the vector of control variables because they are directly 
affected by the treatment. Both firm-merger and time-merger fixed effects are controlled.10 Standard errors are clustered at the merger 
level to mitigate the concern that innovations by firms in the same institutional merger might be correlated. 

Table 4 reports the results of these DiD regressions. The treated firms are identified based on both equally weighted and value- 
weighted ΔVCOs. The results for both models with and without control variables are reported and they are largely similar to each 
other. For all innovation measures, the estimated coefficients on Treatmentij × Postjt are positive and significant. This result suggests 
that treated firms (i.e., those whose common ownership increases due to financial institution mergers) exhibit a greater increase in 
innovation input and output than control firms. In terms of economic significance, the estimated coefficients on Treatmentij × Postjt in 
columns (1) and (3) indicate that treated firms, relative to control firms, experience about 2% higher increase in R&D intensity, 9% 
higher increase in patent applications, and 9% higher increase in average patent value during the five years after the financial 
institution mergers, compared to the five years before the merger. 

4.2.3. IV regressions and results 
In this subsection, I complement the DiD analysis above with an instrument variable (IV) strategy to obtain a quantitative estimate 

of the effect of the VCO on suppliers’ innovation activities from the variation generated by the financial institutional mergers. I run 
specifications with the difference between average log innovation variables in the periods before and after the mergers as the 
dependent variable, and the difference between average VCO in percentage in the periods before and after the mergers as the main 
explanatory variable. I control merger fixed effects and all control variables in the baseline regression. All the control variables are 
evaluated in the year prior to the mergers. I instrument the main explanatory variable with the treatment dummy constructed using the 
top and bottom terciles of the implied change in VCO, as in the DiD analysis above.11 In particular, the first-stage regression is as 
follow: 

Δpost− preVCOijt = δ1 Treatmentij +Xij,t− 1 +αj + εij,

where firm i is in merger j that happens in year t. Δpost− preVCO denotes the difference between the average VCO in the five years after 
the mergers and the average VCO in the five years before the mergers: 

∑5 ∑

Δ +k × 100 5
t− k × 100

post− preVCOijt =
k=1VCOij,t

− k=1VCOij,
5 5 

And the second-stage regression is 

Δpost− preinnovationijt = δ2 Δpost ̂− preVCOijt +Xij,t− 1 +αj + εij,

where Δpost− preinnovation denotes the difference between the average innovation variables in the five years after the mergers and the 
average innovation variables in the five years before the mergers: 

Δpost− preinnovationijt  

10 The construction of stacked dataset discussed above will lead to duplicate firm-year observations, because the same firm-year observations can 
serve as treated/control observations in data samples for different mergers. Therefore, it is necessary to control firm/year-merger fixed effects.  
11 The raw implied change in VCO could also be used as the instrument. The benefit of using implied change in VCO as the instrument is that it 

makes use of more variation. But it potentially has more measurement error. 

12



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Table 4 
DiD Regression.   

(1) (2) (3) (4)  

EW EW VW VW 

Panel A ln(1 + R&D Intensity) 
Treatment × Post 0.015** 0.027*** 0.018** 0.028***  

(2.172) (7.702) (2.505) (8.029) 
Q  − 0.005***  − 0.005***   

(− 3.500)  (− 3.511) 
ln(Sales)  − 0.177***  − 0.177***   

(− 17.478)  (− 17.509) 
Capital Intensity  0.241***  0.241***   

(7.771)  (7.776) 
Profitability  − 0.367***  − 0.367***   

(− 14.961)  (− 14.981) 
Leverage  − 0.152***  − 0.152***   

(− 10.681)  (− 10.679) 
Observations 49,244 43,478 49,244 43,478 
R-squared 0.757 0.818 0.757 0.818 
Firm-merger FE Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year-merger FE Yes Yes Yes Yes    

(1) (2) (3) (4)  

EW EW VW VW 

Panel B ln(1 + #pat) 
Treatment × Post 0.098*** 0.059*** 0.089*** 0.058***  

(5.234) (3.706) (4.512) (3.618) 
Q  − 0.001  − 0.001   

(− 0.450)  (− 0.462) 
ln(Sales)  0.243***  0.243***   

(22.956)  (23.045) 
Capital Intensity  0.244***  0.244***   

(4.759)  (4.746) 
Profitability  − 0.226***  − 0.226***   

(− 10.681)  (− 10.654) 
Leverage  − 0.195***  − 0.195***   

(− 9.088)  (− 9.077) 
Observations 49,330 43,478 49,330 43,478 
R-squared 0.762 0.832 0.762 0.832 
Firm-merger FE Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year-merger FE Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Panel C ln(1 + Avg.xi) 
Treatment × Post 0.089*** 0.078*** 0.086*** 0.081***  

(3.022) (3.556) (2.892) (3.679) 
Q  0.024***  0.024***   

(7.206)  (7.229) 
ln(Sales)  0.144***  0.144***   

(8.548)  (8.538) 
Capital Intensity  − 0.094**  − 0.094**   

(− 2.241)  (− 2.225) 
Profitability  − 0.028  − 0.028   

(− 1.541)  (− 1.527) 
Leverage  − 0.159***  − 0.159***   

(− 6.211)  (− 6.200) 
Observations 49,330 43,478 49,330 43,478 

(continued on next page) 

13



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Table 4 (continued )  
(1) (2) (3) (4)  

EW EW VW VW 

R-squared 0.731 0.788 0.731 0.788 
Firm-merger FE Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year-merger FE Yes Yes Yes Yes 

This table reports the DiD regression results for the model: 
Innovationijt = β0 + β1 Treatmentij ×Postjt + β2Xijt +αij + αtj + εijt   

The dependent variables are ln(1 + R&D Intensity) in Panel A, ln(1 + #pat) in Panel B, and ln(1 + Avg.xi) in Panel C. Treatmentij is a dummy variable 
that equals one if firm i is a treated firm in merger j. Postjt is a dummy variable that equals one if year t is in post-event period for merger j. The treated 
firms are those in the top tercile of ΔVCO, while the control firms are those in the bottom tercile of ΔVCO. ΔVCO is the difference between (1) the 
hypothetical VCO assuming the merger had already happened in the year before announcement and (2) the actual VCO in the year before the 
announcement. The treated firms are identified based on equally weighted ΔVCO in columns (1) and (2), and on sales-value-weighted ΔVCO in 
columns (3) and (4). X is a vector of control variables. Results of DiD regressions without control variables are reported in columns (1) and (3). Both 
firm-merger and time-merger fixed effects are employed. Standard errors are clustered at the merger level. t-statistics are reported in parentheses 
below coefficient estimates. Significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level is denoted by *, **, and ***, respectively.  

( ∑ ) (
5 ∑ )

innovation 5
= ln 1+ k=1 ij,t− k in

− ln 1+ k=1 novationij,t+k
,

5 5

Panel A of Table 5 reports the result of first-stage regression. The treatment dummy works as a strong instrument for the difference 
between average VCOs before and after the mergers. Specifically, the p-values from underidentification tests are smaller than 1%, and 
the F-statistics from weak identification tests are around 75. The coefficient estimates for the instrument variable suggest that, 
compared with the control firms, the increase in the average VCO of the treated firms in the five years after the mergers is around 0.07 
percentage point higher. Panel B of Table 5 presents the results of second-stage regressions. These results show positive and significant 
effects of the instrumented change in the VCO on the change in innovation. Multiplying the coefficients on Δpost− preVCO by the co
efficient on Treatment in the first-stage regression, the results suggest that compared with the control firms, the increase in R&D in
tensity of the treated firms after the mergers is about 4% higher, the increase in the number of applied patents is around 9% higher, and 
the increase in the average patent value is around 12% higher. These estimates are consistent with the results from the DiD analysis. 

One crucial condition for the DiD approach to be appropriate is the assumption of parallel trends between the treatment and control 
groups in the pre-event period. I verify this assumption by comparing the average growth of the innovation measures for treated versus 
control firms during the five years prior to the institutional mergers and find that the parallel trends assumption is likely to hold in my 
setting. Please refer to Appendix C for more details about the test. Overall, the DiD and the IV analyses suggest that an exogenous 
increase in a supplier’s vertical common ownership leads, on average, to greater amounts of supplier innovation input and output. The 
findings provide plausible evidence for a causal interpretation of the positive relation between vertical common ownership and 
supplier innovation activities. 

4.3. Additional tests 

To assess whether there are different effects between vertical and horizontal common ownerships, I include a proxy for common 
ownership of competitors (i.e., horizontal common ownership) in the baseline regressions. Similar to the construction of vertical 
common ownership, I first construct a firm-pair-level measure of horizontal common ownership, called pairwise HCO, as: 

∑F
pairwise HCOijt = β β ,

f=1 fit fjt

where there are F institutions holding both firm i and its competitor j. βfi(j)t denotes institution f ‘s holding fraction of firm i (competitor 
j) in year t. The value of pairwise VCO is higher when there are more common owners and/or when these common owners are holding 
higher fractions of firms and/or their competitors. I use FIC500 code developed by Hoberg and Phillips (2016) to identify 
competitors.12 

Next, I aggregate pairwise HCO at the level of firm i to construct HCO as: 

12 I do not use SIC codes because industry identification on the basis of SIC codes has multiple issues. First, the industry of a conglomerate cannot 
be described by a single SIC. Second, firms with the same SIC code are not necessarily competitors, but could be upstream and downstream firms in 
the same industry. FIC codes mitigate these issues by introducing text-based industry categorization. In particular, FIC codes group the firms into 
different industries based on the similarity of their product descriptions in 10-K files. FIC500 categorizes firms in the market into 500 industry 
groups. In untabulated results, I also use FIC300 and FIC400, and get similar results. 

14



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Table 5 
IV Regressions.  

Panel A Δpost− preV CO  

EW VW  

(1) (2) 

Treatment 0.071*** 0.067***  
(8.727) (7.702) 

IO 0.001 0.002  
(0.076) (0.085) 

IO HHI − 0.007 − 0.009  
(− 1.214) (− 1.317) 

Q 0.006*** 0.007***  
(5.413) (5.642) 

ln(Sales) 0.011*** 0.012***  
(3.436) (3.866) 

Capital Intensity − 0.072*** − 0.058**  
(− 2.880) (− 2.524) 

Profitability 0.010 0.012  
(0.906) (1.132) 

Leverage − 0.016 − 0.01  
(− 0.674) (− 0.764) 

Observations 4200 4200 
Merger FE Yes Yes 
P-val. 0.0000 0.0000 
(Underidentification Test)   
Kleibergen-Paap Wald rk F-stat. 76.16 74.61 
(Weak Identification Test)     

Panel B Δln(1 + R&D Intensity) Δln(1 + #pat) Δln(1 + Avg.xi)  

EW VW EW VW EW VW  

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 

Δpost− preVCO 0.626** 0.703*** 1.329*** 1.256*** 1.698*** 1.701***  
(2.485) (2.769) (3.412) (3.052) (4.190) (3.965) 

IO − 0.242*** − 0.243*** 0.072 0.069 0.134** 0.132**  
(− 4.053) (− 4.141) (1.470) (1.387) (2.312) (2.193) 

IO HHI − 0.260** − 0.259** − 0.123*** − 0.122*** − 0.045 − 0.044  
(− 2.319) (− 2.298) (− 3.049) (− 3.039) (− 0.995) (− 0.980) 

Q − 0.004 − 0.005 0.023*** 0.023*** 0.008 0.008  
(− 0.353) (− 0.432) (3.853) (3.839) (1.388) (1.250) 

ln(Sales) 0.017* 0.016 − 0.015 − 0.015 − 0.007 − 0.009  
(1.905) (1.679) (− 0.964) (− 0.964) (− 0.787) (− 0.956) 

Capital Intensity − 0.631*** − 0.634*** 0.086 0.060 0.171* 0.159*  
(− 4.690) (− 4.666) (0.688) (0.463) (1.930) (1.706) 

Profitability 0.831*** 0.829*** 0.370*** 0.370*** 0.133*** 0.132***  
(8.975) (8.961) (8.137) (8.168) (3.695) (3.762) 

Leverage − 0.118** − 0.115** − 0.137*** − 0.133*** − 0.081 − 0.075  
(− 2.154) (− 2.081) (− 2.919) (− 2.894) (− 1.276) (− 1.205) 

Observations 4200 4200 5026 5026 5026 5026 
R-squared 0.067 0.060 0.044 0.039 0.173 0.193 
Merger FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 

Panel A of this table reports the first-stage IV regression results for the model: 
Δpost− preVCOijt = δ1 Treatmentij +Xij,t− 1 +αj + εij   

Δpost− pre VCO measures the difference between average VCO in the periods before and after the mergers. The instrument variable is the treatment 
dummy constructed using the top and bottom terciles of the implied change in VCO, as in the DiD analysis. Panel B of this table reports the second- 
stage regression results for the model: 

Δpost− preinnovationijt = δ2 Δpost ̂− preVCOijt +Xij,t− 1 + αj + εij   

Δpost− pre innovation measures the difference between average log innovation variables in the periods before and after the mergers. In Panel B, the log 
innovation variables are ln(1 + R&D Intensity) columns (1) and (2), ln(1 + #pat) in columns (3) and (4), and ln(1 + Avg.xi) in columns (5) and (6). X is 
a vector of all control variables used in baseline regression evaluated in the year before the mergers. Δpost− pre VCO and Treatment are constructed based 
on both equally weighted and sale-value-weighted VCO. Merger fixed effects are employed. Standard errors are clustered at the merger level. t- 
statistics are reported in parentheses below coefficient estimates. Significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level is denoted by *, **, and ***, respectively.  

15



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Table 6 
Vertical vs. Horizontal Common Ownership.   

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)  

EW VW EW VW EW VW 

Panel A ln(1 + R&D Intensity) 
VCO 2.818* 1.851**   2.996* 1.588**  

(1.896) (2.500)   (1.756) (2.066) 
HCO   0.942 1.606*** − 0.860 0.814    

(1.054) (2.833) (− 0.563) (1.649) 
Obs. 6237 6237 6237 6237 6237 6237 
R-squared 0.847 0.847 0.847 0.847 0.847 0.847 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Firm FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Panel B ln(1 + #pat) 
VCO 24.890*** 22.687***   19.644** 13.346*  

(3.495) (3.154)   (2.605) (1.768) 
HCO   34.036*** 30.346*** 19.318* 22.507***    

(3.222) (4.834) (1.699) (3.611) 
Obs. 6671 6671 6671 6671 6671 6671 
R-squared 0.837 0.837 0.837 0.837 0.837 0.837 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Firm FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Panel C ln(1 + Avg.xi) 
VCO 11.107*** 9.995**   9.033* 7.286*  

(2.817) (2.548)   (1.967) (1.752) 
HCO   14.441* 10.681* 7.461 6.283    

(1.710) (1.841) (0.773) (0.991) 
Obs. 6673 6673 6673 6673 6673 6673 
R-squared 0.779 0.779 0.779 0.779 0.779 0.779 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Firm FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 

This table reports the results for models that regress the innovation activity measure on vertical common ownership, horizontal common ownership, 
and both. The dependent variables are ln(1 + R&D Intensity) in Panel A, ln(1 + #pat) in Panel B, and ln(1 + Avg.xi) in Panel C. The results for vertical 
common ownership are in columns (1) and (2), those for horizontal common ownership are in columns (3) and (4), and those for both are in columns 
(5) and (6). Columns (1), (3), and (5) show the results with equally weighted common ownership measures, and columns (2), (4), and (6) show the 
results with value-weighted measures. All control variables, firm and year fixed effects are included in all regressions. Standard errors are clustered at 
the industry level. t-statistics are reported in parentheses below coefficient estimates. Significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level is denoted by *, **, 
and ***, respectively. 

∑J
HCOit = w p

j t airwi
=1 j se HCO  

where there are J competitors for firm i. The weight wjt denotes competitor j’s relative share among all the competitors in year t. I 
employ both equal weights and weights on the basis of the market value of each competitor. 

Table 6 reports the results for models that also control for horizontal common ownership. Given that the needed FIC code is 
available only for 1996 and later, the sample period for these models is from 1996 to 2010, and sample sizes are smaller than baseline 
regressions. Panel A compares the effects of vertical versus horizontal common ownership on innovation input as measured by R&D 
Intensity. Columns (1) and (2) show that equally weighted and value-weighted vertical common ownerships are positively associated 
with R&D Intensity at the 10% and 5% significance levels respectively. Columns (3) and (4) show that only value-weighted horizontal 
common ownership is positively associated with R&D Intensity, at the 1% significance level, if VCO is excluded from the model. It 
implies that the impact of horizontal common ownership on R&D Intensity works mainly through the common holdings of the large 
firms. When both vertical and horizontal common ownership are included in the regressions, as in columns (5) and (6), horizontal 
common ownership loses statistical significance, while equally weighted and value-weighted vertical common ownerships still keep 
statistical significance at 10% and 5% levels respectively. The coefficient magnitudes of vertical common ownership are larger than 
those of horizontal common ownership in all six columns. The vertical common ownership effect clearly dominates. 

Panel B compares the effects between vertical and horizontal common ownership on suppliers’ quantity of innovation output as 
measured by ln(1 + #pat). Columns (1) and (2) show that both equally weighted and value-weighted vertical common ownerships are 
positively associated with ln(1 + #pat) at the 1% significance level. Columns (3) and (4) show that both equally weighted and value- 
weighted horizontal common ownerships are positively related to ln(1 + #pat) at the 1% significance level as well, and the coefficient 
magnitudes of horizontal common ownership are larger than those of vertical common ownership. When both vertical and horizontal 
common ownerships are included in the regressions in columns (5) and (6), both vertical and horizontal common ownerships retain 
their statistical significances. 

Lastly, Panel C compares the effects of vertical and horizontal common ownership on the quality of innovation output as measured 

16



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

by ln(1 + Avgxi). Columns (1) and (2) show that equally weighted and value-weighted vertical common ownership are positively 
associated with ln(1 + Avgxi) at the 1% and 5% significance levels respectively. Columns (3) and (4) show that both equally weighted 
and value-weighted horizontal common ownership are also positively associated with ln(1 + Avgxi) at the 10% significance level. 
When both vertical and horizontal common ownerships are included in the regressions in columns (5) and (6), horizontal common 
ownership loses statistical significance, while vertical common ownership retains statistical significance at the 10% level, suggesting 
that the effect of VCO again dominates. 

Overall, Table 6 shows that vertical common ownership has a more robust effect on innovation input and quality of innovation 
output than horizontal common ownership does. The magnitude of vertical common ownership’s impact on input to innovation is 
consistently larger than that of horizontal common ownership. The reason might be that there are two countervailing effects of 
horizontal common ownership on corporate innovation: a positive effect from technology spillovers and a negative business-stealing 
effect from competitors (Bloom et al., 2013; Anton et al., 2018). In contrast, the impact of vertical common ownership on corporate 
innovation has two positive effects: a positive technology spillover effect and a positive effect from hold-up mitigation along the supply 
chain. 

I also test the baseline regression results for alternative vertical common ownership measures on the basis of different assumptions 
about shareholder attention (Gilje et al., 2020) and find positive and significant associations with the outcomes for most cases. Please 
refer to Appendix D for more details about the test. Overall, the positive and statistically significant relationships between innovation 
activities and supplier vertical common ownership are robust across models that use alternative measures of common ownership and 
different assumptions about the allocation of shareholder attention. 

5. Vertical common ownership and suppliers’ innovation activities: potential channels 

Baseline regressions and DiD analyses suggest that vertical common ownership leads suppliers to improve their innovation input 
and output. This section explores potential reasons why vertical common ownership may affect supplier innovation activities: (1) a 
hold-up mitigation channel, (2) a technological spillover channel, and (3) a vertical creative destruction channel. 

5.1. Hold-up mitigation channel 

A hold-up problem could emerge for a supplier when its customers act opportunistically towards the supplier’s relationship-specific 
innovation or products. Customer opportunism could reduce the supplier’s incentives to invest in and thus generate innovations. The 
hold-up problems are unobservable; therefore, I construct proxies for the scenarios that are related to the severities of potential hold-up 
problems. In particular, a hold-up channel is examined from three perspectives: (1) a supplier’s vertical integration with its operating 
segments, (2) a supplier’s bargaining power relative to its customers, and (3) the asset specificity of inputs to a supplier’s customers.13 

Vertically integrated firms are those for whom at least one of their operating segments is in the downstream industry. When the 
customers of vertically integrated firms act or tend to act opportunistically, the segments in downstream industries can at least 
temporarily function as “internal customers.” Therefore, customer opportunism has less impact on vertically integrated suppliers. 

When the market power of a supplier in its own industry is relatively stronger than that of its customer in that customer’s industry, 
the bargaining power of the supplier is stronger vis-`a-vis the customer. The strong market power of a supplier in its industry implies 
that the supplier has relatively better production capability than peer firms. Its products thus have a relatively larger market share and 
more stable quality control. If a customer switches to other less competitive suppliers, the marginal cost for purchasing the input could 
be larger due to less accessibility or potentially worse quality. From the customer side, weak market power in its industry implies that 
the customer has a relatively smaller market share than peer firms, and therefore, there will be less opportunity cost for its supplier to 
break the relationship and transfer to other customers. In sum, it is less likely for the customer to act opportunistically by threatening to 
transfer to other suppliers that provide similar products. Suppliers with stronger bargaining power relative to their customers, 
therefore, have fewer hold-up problems. 

Customer opportunism arises mainly towards relationship-specific products because these customized products are hard to market 
or difficult to use for other customers. When the input to customers can be more easily used in other industries (i.e., these assets have 
less asset specificity), it is less likely for the suppliers to produce relationship-specific products, thereby leading to fewer hold-up 
problems for the suppliers. 

Theoretical studies (e.g., Grossman and Hart, 1986) suggest that joint ownership could mitigate the severities of hold-up problems. 
Common owners have the incentive to mitigate the severities of hold-up problems because they could actually benefit from better 
(relationship-specific) innovation performance of the suppliers that could result from improved supplier-customer relationships. For 
example, relationship-specific products can lower the cost of inputs for the customers, thereby leading to higher profits and, thus, 
potentially higher values for the customers as well as the entire portfolio. If vertical common ownership really improves suppliers’ 
innovation performance by mitigating the hold-up problems between suppliers and customers in the same portfolio, I expect to see that 
the impact of vertical common ownership is less pronounced for the suppliers with fewer hold-up problems in the first place. 

13 According to FASB 131, an operating segment is a component of an entity that (1) engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues 
and incur expenses and (2) has discrete financial information available. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the 
entity’s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance. An operating 
segment could be a division, unit, or department of a firm. Public firms are required to disclose information about their operating segments. 

17



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

The following subsections report the construction of proxies for hold-up issues and results of the tests for the conjectures above. 

5.1.1. Vertical integration 
As discussed above, if vertical common ownership really affects suppliers’ innovation activities by lessening opportunities for hold- 

up problems between the supplier and its customers, the impact of vertical common ownership on innovation activities should be less 
pronounced for vertically integrated suppliers. I test this conjecture by running the following regression: 

Innovationit = β0 + β1VCOi,t− 1 + β2PVIi,t− 1 + μVCOi,t− 1PVIi,t− 1 + β3Xi,t− 1 + αi +αt + εit , (1)  

where PVIit is the percentage of sales from operating segments in downstream industries out of the total sales from all its segments.14 I 
expect to see a negative and statistically significant estimate for the coefficient μ on the interaction term in Eq. (1) if the conjecture 
holds. 

Table 7 reports the results for tests of this conjecture. The estimated coefficients on the interaction terms between vertical common 
ownership and the weight of segments in downstream industries measured by PVI are negative and significant when the dependent 
variables are the innovation input and the quality of innovation output. This finding suggests that the effects of vertical common 
ownership on the outcome variables, (1) investment in innovation and (2) quality of innovation output, are weaker for more vertically 
integrated suppliers. This finding is consistent with the argument that vertical common ownership improves the innovation input and 
the quality of innovation output by reducing the likelihood of hold-up problems. 

5.1.2. Supplier bargaining power 
If a supplier has stronger bargaining power, relative to its customers, then these customers are less likely to act opportunistically 

against the supplier. I construct the variable Size Rank Ratio (SRR) as a proxy for a supplier’s bargaining power relative to its 
customers: 

∑C SR
SRRit = w it

,
c=1 ctSRct

where supplier i in year t has C customers. SRi(c)t denotes supplier i (customer c)’s size rank in year t. Size rank of a firm is measured as 
the decile of its accumulated sales, across the current year and the past two years, in its market as identified by its three-digit SIC code. 
The weight wct applies to customer c in year t. I use both (1) equal weights, and (2) value weights based on the sales value between 
supplier and its customers. 

I use accumulated sales because the market power of a firm is the consequence of persistent market performance in multiple years. 
Short-term sales in a single year may not correctly reflect the true market power of a firm. Size rank reflects the relative market 
performance of a firm compared with its peers in the same industry. It is more comparable across different industries than sales value or 
market share. Sales value ignores different sizes across industries. Market share takes industry size into consideration but ignores the 
relation between the firm and its peers in the same industry. For example, Firm A has a 30% market share in an industry with only two 
firms, and the other firm has a 70% market share, while Firm B also has a 30% market share, but in an industry with many firms and 
each of these other firms has less than 5% market share. Firm A and B have the same market share, but the market power is unlikely to 
be the same. 

If vertical common ownership really affects suppliers’ innovation activities by mitigating the hold-up issues between a supplier and 
its customers, the impact of vertical common ownership on innovation activities should be less pronounced for suppliers with higher 
SRR. I test this conjecture using the following regression: 

Innovationit = β0 + β1VCOi,t− 1 + β2SRRi,t− 1 + μVCOi,t− 1SRRi,t− 1 + β3Xi,t− 1 +αi +αt + εit, (2) 
If the conjecture holds, I expect to see a negative and statistically significant estimate for the coefficient μ on the interaction term in 

Eq. (2). 
Table 8 reports the results for tests of this conjecture. The estimating sample retains only those suppliers having all their customers 

with available sales data, so the sample size for these regressions is smaller. The estimate for the coefficient on interaction term be
tween vertical common ownership and the size-rank ratio is negative and significant in the model to explain innovation input. The 
result suggests that the effect of vertical common ownership on investment in innovation is weaker for a supplier with stronger 
bargaining power relative to its customers. This finding is consistent with the argument that vertical common ownership improves 
innovation input by minimizing the potential for hold-up problems. 

5.1.3. Customer input redeployability 
If customers are using an input that can be redeployed more easily to other industries, so that their suppliers’ products and related 

innovation are less relationship-specific, these suppliers are less likely to be held up by their customers. Kim and Kung (2017) develop 
proxies for asset redeployability according to the BEA I/O table. Based on their measures, I construct the variable Input Redeployability 
(IR) as proxy for the asset specificity of customer inputs: 

14 I follow Martin and Otto (2017)’s procedures to identify operating segments in the downstream industries of a firm. More details about the 
method are in Appendix E. 

18



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Table 7 
Hold-up Channel: Vertical Integration.   

ln(1 + R&D Intensity) ln(1 + #pat) ln(1 + Avg.xi)  

EW VW EW VW EW VW  

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 

VCO 3.057** 3.310** 27.549*** 27.048*** 32.983*** 31.691***  
(2.515) (2.323) (2.958) (3.171) (3.537) (3.400) 

PVI − 0.003 0.002 − 0.011 − 0.011 − 0.058 − 0.063  
(− 0.165) (0.105) (− 0.101) (− 0.103) (− 0.557) (− 0.602) 

VCO PVI − 5.780** − 7.210** − 9.275 − 9.282 − 30.959*** − 29.179***  
(− 2.269) (− 2.045) (− 0.605) (− 0.627) (− 2.938) (− 2.750) 

IO HHI 0.003 0.003 0.090* 0.090* 0.104** 0.104**  
(0.203) (0.218) (1.816) (1.819) (2.438) (2.444) 

IO − 0.003 0.000 − 0.193 − 0.192 0.143 0.143  
(− 0.175) (0.011) (− 1.613) (− 1.586) (1.301) (1.279) 

Q − 0.003 − 0.003 0.036*** 0.036*** 0.047*** 0.047***  
(− 0.839) (− 0.842) (5.199) (5.196) (7.101) (7.111) 

ln(Sales) 0.018*** 0.018*** 0.397*** 0.397*** 0.207*** 0.207***  
(3.795) (3.650) (8.604) (8.601) (10.781) (10.659) 

Capital Intensity − 0.032 − 0.032 0.319** 0.321** 0.243 0.245  
(− 1.478) (− 1.477) (2.305) (2.326) (1.562) (1.577) 

Profitability − 0.189** − 0.189** − 0.165*** − 0.165*** 0.039 0.039  
(− 2.189) (− 2.195) (− 2.856) (− 2.843) (0.977) (0.971) 

Leverage − 0.103** − 0.103** − 0.330*** − 0.329*** − 0.146*** − 0.146***  
(− 2.155) (− 2.157) (− 4.951) (− 4.963) (− 2.793) (− 2.778) 

Obs. 11,859 11,859 11,868 11,868 11,868 11,868 
R-squared 0.824 0.824 0.821 0.821 0.775 0.775 
Firm FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 

This table reports regression results for the model: 
Innovationit = β0 + β1VCOi,t− 1 + β2PVIi,t− 1 + μVCOi,t− 1PVIi,t− 1 + β3Xi,t− 1 +αi + αt + εit ,

where PVI is the percentage of sales from segments in downstream industries out of the total sales from all segments. The dependent variables are ln(1 
+ R&D Intensity) in columns (1) and (2), ln(1 + #pat) in columns (3) and (4), and ln(1 + Avg.xi) in columns (5) and (6). The supplier-level variable 
VCO is an equally weighted average of supplier-customer-pair-level vertical common ownership in columns (1), (3) and (5); and a sales-value- 
weighted average in columns (2), (4) and (6). Firm and year fixed effects are employed in all regressions. Standard errors are clustered at the in
dustry level. t- statistics are reported in parentheses below coefficient estimates. Significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level is denoted by *, **, and 
***, respectively.  

∑C
IRit = w Re

c t depl
=1 c oyabilityct ,

where supplier i in year t has C customers. Redeployabilityct is the firm-level redeployability score developed by Kim and Kung (2017) 
for customer c in year t. Higher Redeployabilityct implies that customer c is using a more redeployable (i.e., less relationship-specific) 
input from her suppliers. Kim and Kung (2017) also provide their dataset of redeployability scores. The factor wct denotes the weight of 
customer c in year t. I use both equal weights and value weights based on the value of sales between the supplier and its customers. 

If vertical common ownership really affects suppliers’ innovation activities by mitigating the hold-up issues between suppliers and 
their customers, the impact of vertical common ownership on innovation activities should be less pronounced for suppliers with higher 
IR. I test this conjecture by running the following regression: 

Innovationit = β0 + β1VCOi,t− 1 + β2IRi,t− 1 + μVCOi,t− 1IRi,t− 1 + β3Xi,t− 1 +αi + αt + εit, (3) 
I expect to see a negative and statistically significant estimate for the coefficient μ on the interaction term in Eq. (3) if the conjecture 

holds. 
Table 9 reports the results for tests of this conjecture. Kim and Kung (2017)’s dataset starts only in 1985, so the sample size for these 

regressions is smaller. The estimates for the coefficient on the interaction term between vertical common ownership and customer 
input redeployability are negative and significant when the dependent variable is innovation input. This result suggests that the effect 
of vertical common ownership on investment in innovation is weaker for the suppliers with customers that are using more rede
ployable inputs from these suppliers. This finding is consistent with the argument that vertical common ownership improves inno
vation input by reducing the potential for hold-up problems with specific consumers. 

Overall, the three tests with different proxies for the intensity of hold-up issues consistently suggest that vertical common 
ownership influences suppliers’ innovation through a hold-up channel. Investment in innovation is the only robust measure of 
innovation performance for the three tests. It suggests that this hold-up channel works mainly for innovation input, and has little 

19



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Table 8 
Hold-up Channel: Supplier Bargaining Power.   

ln(1 + R&D Intensity) ln(1 + #pat) ln(1 + Avg.xi)  

EW VW EW VW EW VW  

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 

VCO 6.630** 5.883*** 10.927 12.855 14.413 14.432*  
(2.560) (2.815) (0.667) (0.850) (1.464) (1.746) 

SRR 0.025*** 0.025*** − 0.102 − 0.109 − 0.104*** − 0.105***  
(2.676) (2.635) (− 1.402) (− 1.520) (− 3.426) (− 3.115) 

VCO SRR − 5.595** − 5.106** 19.703 16.771 5.602 4.362  
(− 2.548) (− 2.604) (0.930) (0.854) (0.657) (0.578) 

IO HHI − 0.030 − 0.030 0.011 0.012 0.097* 0.098*  
(− 1.338) (− 1.341) (0.166) (0.188) (1.660) (1.688) 

IO 0.031 0.033 − 0.043 − 0.039 0.269* 0.275**  
(1.565) (1.544) (− 0.260) (− 0.230) (1.956) (1.998) 

Q − 0.005 − 0.005 0.023** 0.023** 0.036*** 0.036***  
(− 0.973) (− 0.972) (2.252) (2.257) (4.022) (4.038) 

ln(Sales) − 0.059 − 0.059 0.326*** 0.328*** 0.201*** 0.202***  
(− 1.644) (− 1.646) (3.693) (3.704) (6.961) (6.929) 

Capital Intensity − 0.084 − 0.083 0.079 0.080 − 0.117 − 0.115  
(− 1.440) (− 1.432) (0.398) (0.401) (− 0.790) (− 0.775) 

Profitability − 0.038* − 0.038* − 0.290*** − 0.290*** − 0.035 − 0.035  
(− 1.713) (− 1.727) (− 4.506) (− 4.500) (− 0.515) (− 0.516) 

Leverage − 0.056*** − 0.056*** − 0.272*** − 0.272*** − 0.049 − 0.050  
(− 2.770) (− 2.782) (− 3.067) (− 3.050) (− 0.669) (− 0.669) 

Obs. 7763 7763 7763 7763 7763 7763 
R-squared 0.866 0.866 0.829 0.829 0.799 0.799 
Firm FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 

This table reports regression results for the model: 
Innovationit = β0 + β1VCOi,t− 1 + β2SRRi,t− 1 + μVCOi,t− 1SRRi,t− 1 + β3Xi,t− 1 +αi + αt + εit ,

∑
where SRR C

it = c=1wctSRit/SRct . SRi(c)t denotes supplier i (customer c)’s size rank in year t. Size rank of a firm is measured as the decile of its 
accumulated sales in the current year and the past two years in its market, as identified by three-digit SIC codes. wct denotes the weight of customer c 
in year t. The dependent variables are ln(1 + R&D Intensity) in columns (1) and (2), ln(1 + #pat) in columns (3) and (4), and ln(1 + Avg.xi) in columns 
(5) and (6). V CO and SRR are equally weighted in columns (1), (3) and (5); and sales-value weighted in columns (2), (4) and (6). Firm and year fixed 
effects are employed in all regressions. Standard errors are clustered at the industry level. t-statistics are reported in parentheses below coefficient 
estimates. Significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level is denoted by *, **, and ***, respectively.  

influence on innovation output. 

5.2. Technological spillover channel 

Another potential channel whereby vertical common ownership may impact a supplier’s innovation activities is through tech
nological spillover. Technological spillover has been shown to improve corporate innovation performance (e.g., Chu et al., 2019). 
Empirical evidence (e.g., Kostovetsky and Manconi, 2020) also demonstrates that common ownership is associated with more in
formation exchange concerning innovation, such as patent citations between firms. It is empirically challenging to test unobservable 
technological spillover. In this paper, I use a proxy for conditions that can facilitate technological spillover, in particular, the “tech
nology proximities” between suppliers and their customers. 

Jaffe (1986) suggests that technological spillover is related to the technological nature of firms’ past research, and presents evi
dence that closer technological positions of firms’ research programs lead to stronger spillover effects between them. The similarity 
between firms’ research programs facilitates the information spillover because it is easier for researchers in similar fields to 
communicate with and learn from each other. If vertical common ownership really enhances suppliers’ innovation performance by 
improving technological spillovers between suppliers and customers in the same portfolio, I expect to observe that the impact of 
vertical common ownership on innovation activities is stronger for suppliers having closer technology proximity with their customers. 

Following Jaffe (1986), I construct the variable called Technology Proximity (TP) as a proxy for the degree of similarity in the 
technological spaces of suppliers and customers: 

(
∑C Sʹ )2

TPit = w itCct
c=1 ct ( Sʹ )( ),

itSit CćtCct

where supplier i in year t has C customers. Sit (Cct) is a column vector, and each element of Sit (Cct) is the ratio of the number of supplier i 

20



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Table 9 
Hold-up Channel: Customer Input Redeployability.   

ln(1 + R&D Intensity) ln(1 + #pat) ln(1 + Avg.xi)  

EW VW EW VW EW VW  

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 

VCO 11.946* 12.881** 26.124 32.594 13.766 8.662  
(1.833) (2.165) (0.687) (0.863) (0.424) (0.282) 

IR − 0.086 − 0.062 0.062 0.048 0.012 0.008  
(− 0.929) (− 0.712) (0.188) (0.158) (0.038) (0.028) 

VCO IR − 23.407* − 27.383** − 3.687 − 20.231 − 1.877 6.825  
(− 1.733) (− 2.036) (− 0.040) (− 0.220) (− 0.023) (0.088) 

IO HHI − 0.040 − 0.040 − 0.051 − 0.051 0.059 0.059  
(− 1.279) (− 1.276) (− 0.991) (− 0.997) (0.869) (0.865) 

IO 0.077*  0.081* 0.091 0.094 0.296***  
(1.795) (1.754) (0.709) (0.723) (2.818) (2.862) 

Q − 0.008 − 0.008 0.016* 0.016* 0.038*** 0.038***  
(− 1.420) (− 1.423) (1.922) (1.915) (5.287) (5.272) 

ln(Sales) − 0.070** − 0.070** 0.248*** 0.249*** 0.155*** 0.155***  
(− 2.013) (− 2.020) (3.618) (3.613) (8.227) (8.191) 

Capital Intensity − 0.009 − 0.009 0.057 0.058 0.056 0.056  
(− 0.351) (− 0.354) (0.409) (0.421) (0.357) (0.355) 

Profitability − 0.058*** − 0.059*** − 0.218*** − 0.219*** 0.038 0.037  
(− 4.521) (− 4.581) (− 2.763) (− 2.782) (0.685) (0.674) 

Leverage − 0.035* − 0.035* − 0.309*** − 0.309*** − 0.118* − 0.118*  
(− 1.952) (− 1.961) (− 4.400) (− 4.403) (− 1.882) (− 1.871) 

Obs. 8914 8914 8920 8920 8920 8920 
R-squared 0.842 0.842 0.836 0.836 0.787 0.787 
Firm FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 

This table reports regression results for the model: 
Innovationit = β0 + β1VCOi,t− 1 + β2IRi,t− 1 + μVCOi,t− 1IRi,t− 1 + β3Xi,t− 1 +αi + αt + εit ,

∑
where IR C

it = c=1wctRedeployabilityct . Redeployabilityct is firm-level redeployability score developed by Kim and Kung (2017) for customer c in year t. 
The term wct denotes the weight of customer c in year t. The dependent variables are ln(1 + R&D Intensity) in columns (1) and (2), ln(1 + #pat) in 
columns (3) and (4), and ln(1 + Avg.xi) in columns (5) and (6). V CO and IR are equally weighted in columns (1), (3) and (5); and sales-value weighted 
in columns (2), (4) and (6). Firm and year fixed effects are employed in all regressions. Standard errors are clustered at the industry level. t-statistics 
are reported in parentheses below coefficient estimates. Significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level is denoted by *, **, and ***, respectively.  

(customer c)’s patents in the last three years (i.e., from year t − 2 to year t), in a given patent class, to the total number of supplier i 
(customer c)’s patents in the last three years.15 The factor wct denotes the weight of customer c in year t. I use both equal weights and 
value weights based on the sales value between a supplier and its customers. The impact of vertical common ownership on a supplier’s 
innovation activities should be stronger for suppliers with higher technology proximity with its customers if a technological spillover 
channel exists. I test this conjecture by running the following regression: 

Innovationit = β0 + β1VCOi,t− 1 + β2TPi,t− 1 + μVCOi,t− 1TPi,t− 1 + β3Xi,t− 1 +αi +αt + εit, (4) 
I expect to see a positive and statistically significant estimate for the coefficient μ on the interaction term in Eq. (4), if the conjecture 

holds. 
Table 10 reports the results for tests of this conjecture. The estimates for the coefficients on the interaction term between vertical 

common ownership and technology proximity are positive and significant for both the quantity and the quality of innovation output, 
but insignificant for the innovation input. These results suggest that the effect of vertical common ownership on innovation output is 
stronger for firms with greater technology proximity to their customers. This finding is consistent with the argument that vertical 
common ownership improves innovation output by improving technological spillovers between suppliers and their customers. 

5.3. Vertical creative destruction channel 

Vertical creative destruction describes the situation that innovations by suppliers can devalue customers’ assets-in-place (Gofman 
et al., 2020). Common owners tend to internalize all the externalities imposed on firms held in the same portfolio (Hansen and Lott, 
1996), so they might also react to the negative impact caused by vertical creative destruction. 

15 Before 2013, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) used the United States Patent Classification (USPC) system to categorize 
patents based on the technical features. It has 420 unique classification codes. 

21



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Table 10 
Technological Spillover Channel: Technology Proximity.   

ln(1 + R&D Intensity) ln(1 + #pat) ln(1 + Avg.xi)  

EW VW EW VW EW VW  

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 

VCO 1.511** 1.027 25.917*** 24.972*** 12.070* 11.682*  
(2.319) (1.575) (3.471) (3.451) (1.909) (1.919) 

TP 0.021 0.018 0.312** 0.294** 0.215* 0.175  
(1.007) (0.850) (2.339) (2.435) (1.699) (1.380) 

VCO TP 14.159 8.853 54.750* 50.141* 51.126* 47.971*  
(1.511) (1.471) (1.919) (1.772) (1.776) (1.716) 

IO HHI − 0.030 − 0.030 − 0.006 − 0.006 0.061 0.060  
(− 1.366) (− 1.365) (− 0.125) (− 0.120) (1.393) (1.391) 

IO 0.079* 0.083* 0.042 0.049 0.227** 0.231**  
(1.763) (1.732) (0.324) (0.371) (2.071) (2.096) 

Q − 0.008* − 0.008* 0.018*** 0.017*** 0.036*** 0.036***  
(− 1.730) (− 1.729) (2.657) (2.630) (5.678) (5.644) 

ln(Sales) − 0.067** − 0.066** 0.268*** 0.269*** 0.163*** 0.163***  
(− 2.074) (− 2.073) (4.961) (4.955) (5.459) (5.445) 

Capital Intensity 0.018 0.019 0.013 0.018 0.024 0.028  
(0.610) (0.616) (0.102) (0.134) (0.190) (0.219) 

Profitability − 0.078*** − 0.079*** − 0.259*** − 0.262*** − 0.060 − 0.063  
(− 2.703) (− 2.670) (− 3.831) (− 3.860) (− 1.100) (− 1.139) 

Leverage − 0.075** − 0.074** − 0.362*** − 0.361*** − 0.179*** − 0.179***  
(− 2.429) (− 2.450) (− 4.560) (− 4.553) (− 3.181) (− 3.179) 

Obs. 11,857 11,857 11,866 11,866 11,866 11,866 
R-squared 0.832 0.832 0.815 0.815 0.774 0.774 
Firm FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 

This table reports regression results for the model: 
Innovationit = β0 + β1VCOi,t− 1 + β2TPi,t− 1 + μVCOi,t− 1TPi,t− 1 + β3Xi,t− 1 +αi +αt + εit ,

∑
where TP C ( )2 [( )( ) ]

it = c=1wct ŚitCct / ŚitSit CćtCct . Sit (Cct) is a column vector, and each element of Sit (Cct) is the ratio of (a) the number of supplier i 
(customer c)’s patents in the last three years (i.e., from year t − 2 to year t) in a patent class to (b) the total number of supplier i (customer c)’s patents 
in the last three years. The term wct denotes the weight of customer c in year t. The dependent variables are ln(1 + R&D Intensity) in columns (1) and 
(2), ln(1 + #pat) in columns (3) and (4), and ln(1 + Avg.xi) in columns (4) and (6). VCO and TP are equally weighted in columns (1), (3) and (5); and 
sales-value weighted in columns (2), (4) and (6). Firm and year fixed effects are employed in all regressions. Standard errors are clustered at the 
industry level. t-statistics are reported in parentheses below coefficient estimates. Significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level is denoted by *, **, and 
***, respectively.  

The vertical creative destruction effect should be the strongest if the suppliers are capital-goods producers. In my empirical test, I 
identify suppliers in capital-producing industries based on BEA I/O tables. In particular, I construct a variable called capital-to-total- 
use ratio (CTUR) based on the USE table: 

/
CTURjt = Capital Goodjt Total Usejt ,

where the use of a commodity by industry j as Capital Good is the sum of non-residential fixed investment in equipment, intellectual 
property, and structures, and residential fixed investment in the USE table. Furthermore, Total Use of the commodity by industry j 
includes the intermediate use, consumption, government use, and all other types of investment in the USE table. Then I identify the 
capital-producing industries as those industries with CTUR larger than 0.5. 

The impact of vertical common ownership on a supplier’s innovation activities should be weaker for a supplier in a capital- 
producing industry if a vertical creative destruction channel really exists. I test this conjecture by running the following regression: 

Innovationit = β0 + β1VCOi,t− 1 + β2Capi,t− 1 + μVCOi,t− 1Capi,t− 1 + β3Xi,t− 1 +αi + αt + εit, (5)  

where Cap is a dummy equal to one if supplier i is in an industry with CTUR larger than 0.5. If the conjecture holds, I expect to see a 
negative and statistically significant estimate for the coefficient μ on the interaction term in Eq. (5). 

Table 11 reports the results of tests of this conjecture. The estimate for the coefficient on the interaction term between vertical 
common ownership and a dummy for a capital-goods producer is negative and significant for both the quantity and the quality of 
innovation output, but does not achieve significance for innovation input. For the innovation output variables, the magnitudes of 
coefficients on the interaction terms are larger than those of coefficients on VCO. This result implies that the positive effect of vertical 
common ownership on innovation is offset by the negative effect caused by vertical creative destruction suppliers that mainly produce 

22



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Table 11 
Vertical Creative Destruction Channel: Capital Good Producer.   

ln(1 + R&D Intensity) ln(1 + #pat) ln(1 + Avg.xi)  

EW VW EW VW EW VW  

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 

VCO 2.509* 1.953* 23.196*** 22.052*** 11.210*** 11.535***  
(1.870) (1.972) (2.853) (2.776) (3.659) (4.141) 

VCO CAP − 2.026 − 1.750* − 31.575** − 29.906** − 38.528* − 39.501*  
(− 1.627) (− 1.689) (− 2.151) (− 1.983) (− 1.905) (− 1.968) 

IO HHI − 0.030 − 0.029 − 0.012 − 0.012 0.057 0.056  
(− 1.280) (− 1.280) (− 0.246) (− 0.251) (1.192) (1.186) 

IO 0.081* 0.084* 0.098 0.103 0.248** 0.247**  
(1.889) (1.877) (0.813) (0.862) (2.268) (2.254) 

Q − 0.008* − 0.008* 0.015* 0.015* 0.036*** 0.036***  
(− 1.667) (− 1.666) (1.869) (1.864) (5.888) (5.892) 

ln(Sales) − 0.069** − 0.069** 0.275*** 0.275*** 0.168*** 0.168***  
(− 2.067) (− 2.068) (3.920) (3.910) (10.703) (10.642) 

Capital Intensity 0.025 0.025 0.034 0.037 0.043 0.045  
(0.789) (0.789) (0.290) (0.317) (0.308) (0.327) 

Profitability − 0.078*** − 0.079*** − 0.276*** − 0.276*** − 0.051 − 0.051  
(− 2.738) (− 2.738) (− 4.095) (− 4.085) (− 0.973) (− 0.963) 

Leverage − 0.078** − 0.079*** − 0.378*** − 0.377*** − 0.187*** − 0.186***  
(− 2.607) (− 2.620) (− 5.884) (− 5.881) (− 3.517) (− 3.507) 

Obs. 11,357 11,357 11,365 11,365 11,365 11,365 
R-squared 0.834 0.834 0.817 0.817 0.777 0.777 
Firm FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 

This table reports regression results for the model: 
Innovationit = β0 + β1VCOi,t− 1 + β2Capi,t− 1 + μVCOi,t− 1Capi,t− 1 + β3Xi,t− 1 +αi + αt + εit ,

where Cap is a dummy equal to one if supplier i is in an industry with CTUR larger than 0.5. CTURjt = Capital Goodjt/Total Usejt, where the use of a 
commodity by industry j as a Capital Good is the sum of nonresidential fixed investment in equipment, intellectual property, and structures, and 
residential fixed investment. And Total Use of the commodity by industry j includes the intermediate use, consumption, government use, and all other 
types of investment. The dependent variables are ln(1 + R&D Intensity) in columns (1) and (2), ln(1 + #pat) in columns (3) and (4), and ln(1 + Avg.xi) 
in columns (5) and (6). VCO is equally weighted in columns (1), (3) and (5); and sales-value weighted in columns (2), (4) and (6). Firm and year fixed 
effects are employed in all regressions. Standard errors are clustered at the industry level. t-statistics are reported in parentheses below coefficient 
estimates. Significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level is denoted by *, **, and ***, respectively.  

capital goods. The positive associations between vertical common ownership and innovation exist only for intermediate-goods pro
ducers This finding is consistent with the argument that vertical common ownership can weaken innovation activities, especially for 
capital-goods suppliers, due to vertical creative destruction. 

In addition to tests of possible supplier-level mechanisms, I also test the association between patent cross-citations and vertical 
common ownership at the supplier-customer-pair level and find that vertical common ownership can increase a supplier’s relationship- 
specific innovation by reducing the likelihood of hold-up by the supplier’s customers. Please refer to Appendix F for more details about 
the test. Overall, tests of the mechanisms behind the hold-up mitigation, the technological spillover, and the vertical creative 
destruction channels provide plausible evidence to support the contention that vertical common ownership (1) increases a supplier’s 
investment in innovation by mitigating the hold-up issues between the supplier and its customers, (2) increases a supplier’s quantity 
and quality of innovation output by improving technological spillovers between the supplier and its customers, and (3) weakens a 
supplier’s quantity and quality of innovation output due to vertical creative destruction. 

6. Conclusion 

Although there is an emerging literature concerning the impact of common ownership on corporate financial decisions, studies that 
specifically address vertical common ownership, especially its impacts on corporate investment and innovation, are still rare. This 
paper examines the impact of vertical common ownership on suppliers’ innovation activities. I find that suppliers’ investment in 
innovation, and the quantity and quality of suppliers’ innovation output, all increase when common owners hold higher fractions of 
the equities of suppliers and their customers. The impacts of vertical common ownership on innovation activities are stronger and more 
robust than the impacts of horizontal common ownership. I provide plausible evidence for causality using both a difference-in- 
differences approach and an instrument variable approach based on mergers of financial institutions. Moreover, I test the potential 
channels through which vertical common ownership could influence supplier innovation activities. I find that such vertical common 
ownership increases investment in innovation by mitigating potential hold-up problems between suppliers and their customers and 

23



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

enhances innovation output performance by improving technological spillovers between the suppliers and their customers. However, 
my results also suggest that for suppliers producing mainly capital goods, these positive effects of common ownership on innovation 
are offset by a negative effect due to vertical creative destruction. 

Overall, my evidence suggests that institutional common ownership enhances suppliers’ innovation performance by improving 
relationships between suppliers and their customers. This research establishes plausible evidence for a causal association between 
common ownership and supplier innovation. Furthermore, by exploring potential economic channels, this study has important im
plications for our understanding of the impacts of common ownership along the supply chain, thereby suggesting another possible 
driver for corporate innovation. 

The concern about potential anti-competitive effects due to common ownership has led academics to recommend anti-trust scrutiny 
for institutional investors. The findings of this paper suggest a positive side of common ownership. My analyses imply that regulators 
may motivate institutional investors to hold firms along the supply chain, which can be beneficial for the economy by improving 
relationships between upstream and downstream firms. 

CRediT authorship contribution statement 

Xian Chen: Conceptualization, Data curation, Formal analysis, Methodology, Visualization, Writing – original draft. 

Appendix A. Variable definitions  

∑C ∑F
• VCO: vertical common ownership. VCOit = c=1wct f=1βfitβfct , where there are F institutions holding both firm i and its customer 

c. βfi(c)t denotes institution f ‘s holding fraction of firm i (customer c) in year t. There are C customers for firm i. The weight wct 
denotes customer c’s relative share among all firm i’s customers in year t. Both equal weight and value weight on the basis of sales 
value between firm i and each customer are employed (Source: Thomson Reuters, Compustat Customer Segment).  

∑J ∑
• HCO: horizontal common ownership. HCO F

it = j=1wjt f=1βfitβfjt , where there are F institutions holding both firm i and its 
competitor j. βfi(j)t denotes institution f ‘s holding fraction of firm i (competitor j) in year t. I use the FIC500 codes developed by 
Hoberg and Phillips (2016) to identify competitors. There are J competitors for firm i. The weight wjt denotes competitor j’s relative 
share among all the competitors in year t. Both equal weights and value weights on the basis of market values of competitors are 
employed (Source: Thomson Reuters, Hoberg and Phillips (2016), CRSP).  

∑
• GGLV CO: vertical common ownership under various assumptions about investors’ attention: GGLVCO C

st = c=1wctGGLsct, where 
there are C customers for supplier s in year t. GGLsct is the common ownership measure for the pair of supplier s and customer c in 
year t. GGL can be constructed under three different assumptions of investors’ attention: linear attention, concave attention, and 
convex attention. More details about the construction of the GGL measures are provided in Appendix D. wct denotes the weight of 
customer c. Both equal weight and sales-value weight are employed. Following Gilje et al. (2020), I also rescale the common 
ownership measures by the sample mean (Source: Compustat Customer Segment, Gilje et al. (2020)).  

• R&D Intensity: R&D expenditure (XRD) divided by sales (SALE) (Source: Compustat).  
• #pat: the number of patent applications at firm-year level (Source: Kogan et al. (2017)).  
• Avg.xi: average patent value at firm-year level (Source: Kogan et al. (2017)).  

∑
• IO HHI: Institutional ownership concentration. IO HHI F

it = f=1r2
fit, where there are F institutions holding firm i’s equity. rfit denotes 

institution f ‘s holding fraction of firm i among the total institutional holding in year t (Source: Thomson Reuters).  
• IO: The percentage of institutional holding among a firm’s total equity (Source: Thomson Reuters, CRSP).  
• Q: Tobin’s Q. Q = [Market value of equity (CSHOQ × PRCCQ) + total assets (AT) - book value of equity (CEQQ) - deferred taxes 

(TXDBQ)] / total assets (AT) (Source: Compustat).  
• ln(Sales): Natural log of sales (SALE in $million) (Source: Compustat).  
• Leverage: Total debt divided by total assets (AT), where total debt = short-term debt (DLC) + long-term debt (DLTT) (Source: 

Compustat).  
• Profitability: Earnings before interest, depreciation, taxes and amortization (EBIDTA) divided by total assets (AT) (Source: 

Compustat).  
• Capital Intensity: Net property, plant and equipment (PPENT) divided by total assets (AT) (Source: Compustat).  
• PVI: the percentage of sales from segments in downstream industries out of the total sales from all segments. The downstream 

industries are identified based on BEA I–O tables; more details about the identification method can be referred to in Appendix C 
(Source: Compustat Segment, BEA I–O tables).  

∑
• SRR: size rank ratio.SRR C

it = c=1wctSRit/SRct. SRi(c)t denotes supplier i (customer c)’s size rank in year t. Size rank of a firm is 
measured as the decile of its accumulated sales in current year and past two years in its market identified by three-digit SIC code. wct 
denotes the weight of customer c in year t. Both equal weight and sales-value weight are employed (Source: Compustat Customer 
Segment). 

∑
• IR: customer input redeployability. IR C

it = c=1wctRedeployabilityct . Redeployabilityct is the firm-level redeployability score devel
oped by Kim and Kung (2017) for customer c in year t. wct denotes the weight of customer c in year t. Both equal weight and sales- 
value weight are employed (Source: Compustat Customer Segment, Kim and Kung (2017)). 

24



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478
∑ [( )( ) ]

 technology proximity. TP C ( )2
• TP: it = c=1wct ŚitCct / SítSit CćtCct . Sit (Cct) is a column vector, and each element of Sit (Cct) is the 

ratio of the number of supplier i (customer c)’s patents in the last three years (i.e., from year t-2 to year t) in a patent class to the total 
number of supplier i (customer c)’s patents in the last three years. wct denotes the weight of customer c in year t. Both equal weight 
and sales-value weight are employed (Source: Compustat Customer Segment, Kogan et al. (2017)).  

• cite: firm-pair level patent cross-citations. citesc includes (1) the total cross-citations between supplier s and customer c, (2) the 
citations from supplier s to customer c, and (3) the citations from customer c to supplier s (Source: Kogan et al. (2017)). 

Appendix B. M&As among financial institutions  

Announce- ment Date Effective Date Acquirer Target 

04/19/1982 01/19/1983 Pittsburgh National Corp Provident National Bank 
08/02/1982 04/01/1983 Mellon Financial Girard Bank 
11/18/1982 04/01/1983 Huntington National Bank Union Commerce Bank 
12/21/1983 07/01/1984 Chase Manhattan Corp Lincoln First Banks Inc. 
06/30/1986 02/27/1987 PNC Financial Corp Citizens Fidelty Bk & Tr 
03/18/1987 01/01/1988 Fleet Financial Group Norstar Trust Company 
04/27/1987 11/01/1987 Sovran Financial Corp Commerce Union Bank 
07/31/1987 02/29/1988 PNC Financial Corp Central Bancorp 
05/04/1988 12/26/1988 Boatmen’s Bancshares Inc Centerre Bancorp 
07/15/1991 12/31/1991 Chemical Banking Corp Manufacturers Hanover Co 
09/16/1991 07/23/1992 PNC Financial Corp First Natl Bank/Penn 
12/30/1991 11/02/1992 Banc One Corp Affiliated Bksh/Colorado 
03/18/1992 10/15/1992 NBD Bancorp Inc INB Financial Corp 
09/09/1992 07/13/1993 Bank of Boston Corp Multibank Financial Corp 
09/14/1992 05/21/1993 Mellon Bank Corp Boston Company Inc 
11/23/1992 07/22/1993 Equitable Companies Inc Alliance Capital Mgmt 
09/20/1993 05/31/1994 Marshall & Ilsley Corp Valley Trust Co/Wisc 
10/18/1993 07/01/1994 First Union Corp Lieber & Co 
03/06/1994 06/30/1994 First Union Corp Evergreen Asset Mgmt 
11/28/1994 04/12/1995 KeyCorp Spears Benzak Salomon 
02/21/1995 11/30/1995 Fleet Financial Group Shawmut Natl Corp 
06/16/1995 06/16/1995 TCW Group Inc Continental Asset Mgmt 
06/19/1995 01/02/1996 First Union Corp First Fidelity Bancorp 
08/07/1995 02/16/1996 First Bank System Inc FirsTier Financial Inc 
06/25/1996 11/01/1996 Franklin Resources Inc Heine Securities Corp 
07/10/1996 10/31/1996 LGT Asset Mgmt Inc Chancellor Capital Mgmt 
09/06/1996 12/12/1996 First Union Corp Keystone Invt Mgmt Co 
12/30/1996 06/02/1997 Banc One Corp Liberty Bancorp Inc 
01/20/1997 05/20/1997 Mellon Bank Corp Ganz Capital Mgmt Inc 
03/20/1997 08/01/1997 First Bank System Inc U S Bancorp 
11/05/1997 12/01/1997 Pimco Advisors LP Oppenheimer & Co LP 
04/06/1998 10/08/1998 Travelers Inc Citicorp 
04/13/1998 09/30/1998 NationsBank Corp BankAmerica Corp 
07/20/1998 12/31/1998 SunTrust Banks Inc Crestar Bank 
02/15/1999 07/06/1999 Credit Suisse Asset M Warburg Pincus Asset M 
03/14/1999 10/01/1999 Fleet Boston Corp BankBoston Corp 
06/20/2000 10/02/2000 AXA Financial Sanford C Berstein 
09/13/2000 12/31/2000 JP Morgan & Co Chase Manhattan 
10/25/2000 04/10/2001 Franklin Resources Fiduciary Trust Intl 
10/18/2000 02/14/2001 Allianz Dresdner Nicholas-Applegate 
08/26/2003 08/26/2003 Wells Fargo & Co Benson Associate 
10/27/2003 04/01/2004 Bank of America Fleet Boston 
05/26/2004 01/03/2005 Wells Fargo & Co Strong Capital Mgmt 
08/26/2004 01/31/2005 BlackRock StateStreet Res & Mgmt 
05/19/2005 08/04/2005 Transamerica Invt Mgmt WestCap Investors 
10/31/2006 12/04/2006 Morgan Stanley FrontPoint 
12/03/2006 07/02/2007 Bank of NY Trust Mellon Bank 
07/07/2008 11/07/2008 RiverSource Invt J.&W. Seligman 
09/16/2008 09/22/2008 Barclays Bank Lehman Brothers Inc 
09/15/2008 01/01/2009 Bank of America Merrill Lynch 
06/12/2009 12/01/2009 BlackRock Inc Barclays Bank Plc  

Appendix C. Testing the parallel trends assumption 

Table C reports the results of t-tests for differences between the average changes in innovation variables between treatment and 
control groups in the pre-event period. The treated firms are identified using both equally weighted and value-weighted ΔVCOs. The p- 
values associated with the test statistics for these t-tests suggest that there are no significant differences of average changes in the 

25



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

innovation variable between treatment and control groups in pre-event period. Therefore, the parallel trends assumption is likely to 
hold in my setting.  

Table C 
Tests to assess the prior parallel trend assumption.   

Changes in Pre-event Period Difference t-test  

Treatment Mean Control Mean (1)–(3) (2)–(4) P-val. P-val.  

EW VW EW VW EW VW EW VW  

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) 

ln(1 + R&D Intensity) − 0.001 − 0.001 − 0.016 − 0.017 0.015 0.016 0.132 0.123 
ln(1 + #pat) 0.199 0.195 0.245 0.253 − 0.046 − 0.058 0.291 0.187 
ln(1 + Avg.xi) 0.242 0.241 0.291 0.297 − 0.049 − 0.057 0.282 0.211 

This table presents the test to verify the parallel trend assumption. Columns (1) and (2) report the average changes in the innovation measures for 
treated firms during the five years before financial institution mergers, while columns (3) and (4) report the average changes in innovation measures 
for control firms during the five years before the mergers. The treated and control firms are identified based on equally weighted ΔVCO in columns (1) 
and (3), and based on sales-value-weighted ΔVCO in columns (2) and (4). Columns (5) and (6) report the differences in means of innovation measures 
between treatment and control groups. Columns (7) and (8) report p-values associated with test statistics of t-tests for differences in means. 

Appendix D. Different assumptions concerning shareholder attention 

Gilje et al. (2020) construct their common ownership measure by taking into account heterogeneous institutional attention to 
different firms in a portfolio. In particular, a shareholder’s attention to a specific firm in her portfolio is positively related to the 
“importance” of this firm, which is measured by the weight of this firm in the shareholder’s portfolio. Gilje et al. (2020), hereafter GGL, 
provide three different firm-pair measures of common ownership on the basis of three different assumptions about shareholders’ 
attention:  

(1) Linear attention: The shareholder’s attention is proportional to the weight of a specific firm in her portfolio,  
(2) Convex attention: The shareholder allocates more attention to the firm with higher weight in her portfolio,  
(3) Concave attention: The shareholder devotes less attention to the firm with higher weight in her portfolio. 

In particular, the GGL measure of common ownership at the firm-pair level is constructed as follows: 
∑I ( )

GGL(A,B) = α
i A g
=1 i, • βi,A • αi,B,

where αi,A(B) denotes institution i’s holding fraction of firm A(B), βi,A denotes the weight of firm A in institution i’s portfolio. g(⋅) is a 
function mapping from βi,A to institution i’s attention towards firm A. The form of g(⋅) varies according to three assumptions about an 
asset manager’s attention:  

(1) Linear attention: g(βi,A) = βi,A. 

An investor’s attention is proportional to the weight of a specific firm in her portfolio.  

(2) Convex attention: g(βi,A) = β2
i,A. 

An investor devotes more attention to the firm with higher weight in her portfolio.  

(3) Concave attention: g(βi,A) = β0.5
i,A . 

An investor devotes less attention to the firm with higher weight in her portfolio. 
The firm-pair-level measures are further aggregated to the supplier level: 

∑J
supplier GGLit = w • GGL(i, j)

j=1 jt t ,

where supplier i has J customers. The term wjt denotes the weight of customer j among all customers in year t. I use both (1) equal 
weights and (2) value weights on the basis of sales from the supplier to each of its customers. Following Gilje et al. (2020), I also rescale 
each measure by its sample mean. 

Table D reports the baseline regression results for alternative vertical common ownership measures on the basis of different as
sumptions about shareholder attention. Panel A shows positive and statistically significant relationships between innovation input 
measured by ln(1 + R&D Intensity) and vertical common ownership measures under assumptions of linear attention and concave 

26



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

attention in columns (1), (2), (5) and (6). Panel B demonstrates positive and statistically significant associations between the quantity 
of innovation output measured by ln(1 + #pat) and vertical common ownership measures, differentiated by the three different as
sumptions about shareholder attention. Lastly, Panel C also displays positive and statistically significant associations between the 
quality of innovation output measured by ln(1 + Avg.xi) and the vertical common ownership measures under assumptions of linear 
attention and concave attention in columns (1), (2), (5) and (6).  

Table D 
Different Assumptions about Shareholder Attention.   

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)  

EW VW EW VW EW VW 

Panel A ln(1 + R&D Intensity)  
Linear Convex Concave 

GGLVCO 0.001* 0.001* 0.000 0.000 0.003*** 0.002**  
(1.777) (1.685) (1.102) (1.114) (2.637) (2.232) 

Obs. 11,857 11,857 11,857 11,857 11,857 11,857 
R-squared 0.827 0.827 0.827 0.827 0.827 0.827 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Firm FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Panel B ln(1 + #pat)  

Linear Convex Concave 
GGLVCO 0.023*** 0.021*** 0.007*** 0.006* 0.047*** 0.043***  

(3.272) (2.976) (2.005) (1.700) (3.529) (3.114) 
Obs. 11,866 11,866 11,866 11,866 11,866 11,866 
R-squared 0.814 0.814 0.814 0.814 0.815 0.815 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Firm FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes    

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)  

EW VW EW VW EW VW 

Panel C ln(1 + Avg.xi)  
Linear Convex Concave 

GGLVCO 0.011** 0.010** 0.002 0.002 0.024*** 0.021**  
(2.057) (1.998) (0.925) (0.941) (2.815) (2.609) 

Obs. 11,866 11,866 11,866 11,866 11,866 11,866 
R-squared 0.774 0.774 0.774 0.774 0.775 0.775 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Firm FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 

This table reports the regression results with alternative vertical common ownership measures differentiated on the basis of shareholder attention 
assumptions. The shareholder attention models and firm-pair level common ownership measures are developed and provided by Gilje et al. (2020). 

∑
GGLVCO C

st = c=1wctGGLsct , where there are C customers for supplier s in year t. GGLsct is the common ownership measure for the pair of supplier s 
and customer c in year t. GGL can be constructed under three different assumptions about investors’ attention: linear attention, concave attention, and 
convex attention. More details about the construction of the GGL measures are provided in Appendix D. wct denotes the weight of customer c. Both 
equal weights and sales-value weights are employed. Following Gilje et al. (2020), I also rescale the common ownership measures by the sample 
mean. The dependent variables are ln(1 + R&D Intensity) in Panel A, ln(1 + #pat) in Panel B, and ln(1 + Avg.xi) in Panel C. The estimated effects of 
vertical common ownership in the case of linear shareholder attention are in columns (1) and (2), those with convex shareholder attention are in 
columns (1) and (4), and those with concave shareholder attention are in columns (5) and (6). Columns (1), (3), and (5) show the results with equally 
weighted common ownership measures, and columns (2), (4), and (6) show the results with value-weighted measures. All control variables, firm and 
year fixed effects are included in all regressions. Standard errors are clustered at the industry level. t-statistics are reported in parentheses below 
coefficient estimates. Significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level is denoted by *, **, and ***, respectively. 

Appendix E. Operating segments in downstream industries 

An operating segment is a profitable unit of a firm that (1) reports its own financial information, such as revenues and expenses, and 
(2) is regularly supervised by the firm’s executives. I identify operating segments in the downstream industries for a firm following the 
procedures of Martin and Otto (2017). 

First, following Acemoglu et al. (2016), I identify industry-level supplier-customer relationships based on the gross flows of 
commodities between industries reported in the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis input-output (BEA I/O) tables. The tables include 
“MAKE” table that links the producers’ industries with the commodities’ industries, and “USE” table that links the consumers’ in
dustries with the commodities’ industries. By matching the two tables on the basis of commodities’ industries, I can identify the 
upsteam industries and their related downstream industries. BEA I/O tables are provided every five years. For my data sample, I refer 

27



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

to the BEA I/O tables from 1982 to 2007. The BEA I/O tables report IO code as industry identification for producers, commodities, and 
consumers. The linking tables between IO code and SIC or NAICS are also provided.16 

Next, the Compustat Segment database reports SIC codes for each firm and its primary operating segments. An operating segment is 
identified as being in the downstream industry of its firm if the SIC codes of the firm and the operating segment show that they are in 
the upstream industry and related downstream industry according to BEA I/O tables. 

Appendix F. Pair-level analyses 

In addition to tests of possible supplier-level mechanisms, I also test the association between patent cross-citations and vertical 
common ownership at the supplier-customer-pair level.17 In particular, I run the following regression: 

( )
ln 1+ citesc,t = β0 + β1 pairwise VCOsc,t− 1 + αs +αc +αt + εsct , (F1)  

where citesc includes (1) total patent cross-citations between supplier s and customer c, (2) patent citations from supplier s to customer 
c, and (3) patent citations from customer c to supplier s. Both supplier and customer fixed effects are included in the model to absorb 
unobserved heterogeneity across firms that may also potentially influence patent cross-citations. The αt captures year fixed effects. 
Standard errors are clustered at both the supplier and the customer industry levels. It is a challenge to explain the implications of 
greater numbers of patent cross-citations between suppliers and their customers. On the one hand, patent cross-citations could be a 
proxy for innovation information exchange, which would be relevant to the technological spillover channel. On the other hand, patent 
cross-citations could be a proxy for relationship-specific innovation from the citing firm directed towards the cited firms, which would 
be more relevant to the hold-up channel. To clarify the theoretical ambiguity concerning the expected sign of the patent cross-citation 
effect, I run two more regressions: 

( )
ln 1+ citesc,t = β0 + β1 pairwise VCOsc,t− 1 + β2 pairwise SRRsc,t− 1  

+ μ pairwise VCOsc,t− 1 pairwise SRRsc,t− 1  

+ αs + αc + αt + εsct, (F2)  
( )

ln 1+ citesc,t = β0 + β1 pairwise VCOsc,t− 1 + β2 pairwise TPsc,t− 1  

+ μ pairwise VCOsc,t− 1 pairwise TPsc,t− 1  

+ αs + αc + αt + εsct, (F3) 
If patent cross-citations between suppliers and customers are relevant to relationship-specific innovation, the impact of pair-level 

common ownership will be cross-sectionally different based on the hold-up issues for the supplier-customer pair. In particular, pair- 
level common ownership will have a less pronounced impact on cross-citations for a supplier-customer pair with weaker hold-up issues 
in the first place. I use the pair-level Size Rank Ratio (pairwise SRR) as the proxy for the hold-up issues between a specific supplier- 
customer pair. I expect to see a negative and statistically significant estimate for the coefficient μ in Eq. (F2). 

Similarly, if patent cross-citations are relevant to information spillover between suppliers and customers, the pair-level common 
ownership will have a stronger impact on cross-citations for the supplier-customer pair with closer technology proximity. I use the pair- 
level Technology Proximity (pairwise TP) as the proxy for the technology proximity between a specific supplier-customer pair. I expect 
to see a positive and statistically significant estimate for the coefficient μ in Eq. (F3). 

Table F reports results for the three models specified above in Eqs. (F1), (F2), and (F3). Panel A shows that greater pair-level vertical 
common ownership increases the number of patent cross-citations between suppliers and customers, especially the number of cross- 
citations from suppliers towards their customers. Panel B tests Eq. (F2) and shows a negative and statistically significant estimate for 
the coefficient on the interaction between the pair-level vertical common ownership (VCO) and the pair-level size rank ratio (SRR) 
when the dependent variable is the number of patent citations from suppliers to their customers. Panel C tests Eq. (F3) and shows no 
statistical significance for the estimate of the coefficient on the interaction term between the pair-level VCO and pair-level technology 
proximity. In all panels, there is no significant association between pair-level VCO and patent cross-citations from customers to their 
suppliers. These results suggest that patent cross-citations between suppliers and their customers are more likely to be a proxy for 
relationship-specific innovation from suppliers towards their customers. The findings here provide additional evidence that vertical 
common ownership can increase a supplier’s relationship-specific innovation by reducing the likelihood of hold-up by the supplier’s 
customers. 

16 According to US Census Bureau, NAICS replaced SIC in 1997. Thus, BEA I/O tables start to provide IO-linking-NAICS table instead of IO-linking- 
SIC table from 1997. A detailed conversion between SIC and NAICS is available from US Census Bureau  
17 Kogan et al. (2017)’s dataset provides the patent identifiers of citing patents linked with the patent identifiers of cited patents. Therefore, I can 

calculate the number of customers(suppliers)’ patents cited by their suppliers(customers)’ patents. 

28



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Table F 
Pair-level Analyses.   

(1) (2) (3)  

ln(1 + total cite) ln(1 + supplier- citing-customer) ln(1 + customer- citing-supplier) 

Panel A    
pairwise V CO 7.112*** 6.777*** − 0.105  

(2.797) (3.181) (− 0.064) 
Observations 7809 7809 7809 
R-squared 0.720 0.662 0.662 
Supplier FE Yes Yes Yes 
Customer FE Yes Yes Yes 
Year FE Yes Yes Yes    

(1) (2) (3)  

ln(1 + total cite) ln(1 + supplier- citing-customer) ln(1 + customer- citing-supplier) 
Panel B    
pairwise VCO 9.197** 8.694*** − 0.111  

(2.366) (3.374) (− 0.048) 
pairwise SRR 0.024 − 0.000 0.025  

(1.309) (− 0.048) (0.943) 
pairwise VCO× pairwise SRR − 2.650 − 2.338** − 0.234  

(− 1.271) (− 2.158) (− 0.150) 
Observations 7773 7773 7773 
R-squared 0.721 0.662 0.663 
Supplier FE Yes Yes Yes 
Customer FE Yes Yes Yes 
Year FE Yes Yes Yes 
Panel C    
pairwise VCO 6.341*** 6.016*** − 0.482  

(3.033) (3.261) (− 0.353) 
pairwise TP 0.448** 0.601* 0.059  

(2.035) (1.969) (0.435) 
pairwise VCO× pairwise TP 12.066 6.547 11.291  

(0.486) (0.265) (0.533) 
Observations 7809 7809 7809 
R-squared 0.721 0.665 0.662 
Supplier FE Yes Yes Yes 
Customer FE Yes Yes Yes 
Year FE Yes Yes Yes 

This table reports regression results for three different models. Panel A: 
( )

ln 1+ citesc,t = β0 + β1 pairwise VCOsc,t− 1 +αs +αc +αt + εsct   

Panel B: 
( )

ln 1+ citesc,t = β0 + β1 pairwise VCOsc,t− 1 + β2 pairwise SRRsc,t− 1  

+ μ pairwise VCOsc,t− 1 pairwise SRRsc,t− 1 +αs +αc +αt + εsct   

Panel C: 
( )

ln 1+ citesc,t = β0 + β1 pairwise VCOsc,t− 1 + β2 pairwise TPsc,t− 1  

+ μ pairwise VCOsc,t− 1 pairwise TPsc,t− 1 + αs + αc + αt + εsct   

where citesc includes (1) the total cross-citations between supplier s and customer c, (2) the citations from supplier s to customer c, and (3) the citations 
from customer c to supplier s. Supplier, customer and year fixed effects are included in each model. Standard errors are clustered at both the supplier 
and the customer industry levels. t-statistics are reported in parentheses below coefficient estimates. Significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level is 
denoted by *, **, and ***, respectively. 

29



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

References 

Acemoglu, Daron, Autor, David, Dorn, David, Hanson, Gordon H., Price, Brendan, 2016. Import competition and the great US employment sag of the 2000s. J. Labor 
Econ. 34 (S1), S141–S198. 

Anton, Miguel, Ederer, Florian, Gine, Mireia, Schmalz, Martin C., 2018. Innovation: The bright side of common ownership? Available at SSRN 3099578. 
Ant’on, Miguel, Ederer, Florian, Gine, Mireia, Schmalz, Martin C., 2018. Common ownership, competition, and top management incentives. Ross School Bus. Pap. 

1328. 
Atanassov, Julian, Liu, Xiaoding, 2019. Can corporate income tax cuts stimulate innovation? J. Financ. Quant. Anal. 1–51. 
Azar, Jose, Schmalz, Martin C., Tecu, Isabel, 2018. Anticompetitive effects of common ownership. J. Financ. 73 (4), 1513–1565. 
Azar, Jose, Raina, Sahil, Schmalz, Martin C., 2019. Ultimate ownership and bank competition. Available at SSRN 2710252. 
Backus, Matthew, Conlon, Christopher, Sinkinson, Michael, 2019. The common ownership hypothesis: Theory and evidence. In: Economic Studies at Brookings, 

1980–2017. 
Banerjee, Shantanu, Dasgupta, Sudipto, Kim, Yungsan, 2008. Buyer–supplier relationships and the stakeholder theory of capital structure. J. Financ. 63 (5), 

2507–2552. 
Bebchuk, Lucian, Hirst, Scott, 2019. Index funds and the future of corporate governance: theory, evidence, and policy. Columbia Law Rev. 119, 2029–2145. 
Bena, Jan, Li, Kai, 2014. Corporate innovations and mergers and acquisitions. J. Financ. 69 (5), 1923–1960. 
Ben-David, Itzhak, Franzoni, Francesco, Moussawi, Rabih, Sedunov, John, 2021. The granular nature of large institutional investors. Manag. Sci. 67 (11), 6629–6659. 
Bloom, Nicholas, Schankerman, Mark, Van Reenen, John, 2013. Identifying technology spillovers and product market rivalry. Econometrica 81 (4), 1347–1393. 
Brav, Alon, Jiang, Wei, Ma, Song, Tian, Xuan, 2018. How does hedge fund activism reshape corporate innovation? J. Financ. Econ. 130 (2), 237–264. 
Cen, Ling, Dasgupta, Sudipto, Elkamhi, Redouane, Pungaliya, Raunaq S., 2016a. Reputation and loan contract terms: the role of principal customers. Rev. Financ. 20 

(2), 501–533. 
Cen, Ling, Dasgupta, Sudipto, Sen, Rik, 2016b. Discipline or disruption? Stakeholder relationships and the effect of takeover threat. Manag. Sci. 62 (10), 2820–2841. 
Chemmanur, Thomas J., Loutskina, Elena, Tian, Xuan, 2014. Corporate venture capital, value creation, and innovation. Rev. Financ. Stud. 27 (8), 2434–2473. 
Chemmanur, Thomas J., Shen, Yao, Xie, Jing, 2016. Innovation beyond firm bound- aries: Common blockholders, strategic alliances, and corporate innovation. In: 

American Economic Association 2017 Meetings Paper, Asian Finance Association (AsianFA) 2016 Conference Paper. 
Chu, Yongqiang, 2012. Optimal capital structure, bargaining, and the supplier market structure. J. Financ. Econ. 106 (2), 411–426. 
Chu, Yongqiang, Tian, Xuan, Wang, Wenyu, 2019. Corporate innovation along the supply chain. Manag. Sci. 65 (6), 2445–2466. 
Cici, Gjergji, Gibson, Scott, Rosenfeld, Claire M., 2015. Cross-company effects of common ownership: Dealings between borrowers and lenders with a common 

blockholder. Available at SSRN 2705856. 
Dass, Nishant, Nanda, Vikram, Xiao, Steven Chong, 2017. Truncation bias corrections in patent data: implications for recent research on innovation. J. Corp. Finan. 

44, 353–374. 
Edward Fee, C., Thomas, Shawn, 2004. Sources of gains in horizontal mergers: evidence from customer, supplier, and rival firms. J. Financ. Econ. 74 (3), 423–460. 
Edward Fee, C., Hadlock, Charles J., Thomas, Shawn, 2006. Corporate equity ownership and the governance of product market relationships. J. Financ. 1217–1251. 
Elhauge, Einer, 2015. Horizontal shareholding. Harv. L. Rev. 129, 1267. 
Ellingsen, Tore, Johannesson, Magnus, 2004. Is there a hold-up problem? Scand. J. Econ. 106 (3), 475–494. 
Freeman, Kayla, 2021. Overlapping ownership along the supply chain. Kelley School Bus. Res. Pap. 16-84. 
Geng, Heng, Hau, Harald, Lai, Sandy, 2017. Patent success, patent holdup, and the structure of property rights. In: Work. Pap., Sch. Econ. Finance, Vic. Univ. 

Wellingt., Wellington, NZ Google Scholar Article Location. 
Gilje, Erik, P., Gormley, Todd, A., Levit, Doron, 2020. Who’s paying attention? Measuring common ownership and its impact on managerial incentives. J. Financ. 137 

(1), 152–178. 
Gofman, Michael, Segal, Gill, Youchang, Wu., 2020. Production networks and stock returns: the role of vertical creative destruction. Rev. Financ. Stud. 03. 
Gordon, Roger H., 2003. Do publicly traded corporations act in the public interest? BE J. Econ. Anal. Policy 3 (1). 
Gormley, Todd A., Matsa, David A., 2011. Growing out of trouble? Corporate responses to liability risk. Rev. Financ. Stud. 24 (8), 2781–2821. 
Grossman, Sanford J., Hart, Oliver D., 1986. The costs and benefits of ownership: a theory of vertical and lateral integration. J. Polit. Econ. 94 (4), 691–719. 
Hall, Bronwyn H., Jaffe, Adam B., Trajtenberg, Manuel, 2001. The NBER Patent Citation Data File: Lessons, Insights and Methodological Tools. Technical report. 

National Bureau of Economic Research. 
Hansen, Robert G., Lott, John R., 1996. Externalities and corporate objectives in a world with diversified shareholder/consumers. J. Financ. Quant. Anal. 31 (1), 

43–68. 
Hart, Oliver, 1995. Firms, Contracts, and Financial Structure. Clarendon press. 
Hart, Oliver, Moore, John, 1990. Property rights and the nature of the firm. J. Polit. Econ. 98 (6), 1119–1158. 
He, Jie Jack, Huang, Jiekun, 2017. Product market competition in a world of cross- ownership: evidence from institutional blockholdings. Rev. Financ. Stud. 30 (8), 

2674–2718. 
He, Jie Jack, Huang, Jiekun, Zhao, Shan, 2019. Internalizing governance externalities: the role of institutional cross-ownership. J. Financ. Econ. 134 (2), 400–418. 
Henke, John W., Zhang, Chun, 2010. Increasing supplier-driven innovation. IT Manag. Sel. 16. 
Hertzel, Michael G., Li, Zhi, Officer, Micah S., Rodgers, Kimberly J., 2008. Interfirm linkages and the wealth effects of financial distress along the supply chain. 

J. Financ. Econ. 87 (2), 374–387. 
Hoberg, Gerard, Phillips, Gordon, 2016. Text-based network industries and endogenous product differentiation. J. Polit. Econ. 124 (5), 1423–1465. 
Huston, Larry, Sakkab, Nabil, 2006. Connect and develop. Harv. Bus. Rev. 84 (3), 58–66. 
Intintoli, Vincent J., Serfling, Matthew, Shaikh, Sarah, 2017. CEO turnovers and disruptions in customer-supplier relationships. J. Financ. Quant. Anal. 52 (6). 
Jaffe, Adam B., 1986. Technological Opportunity and Spillovers of R&D: Evidence from firms’ Patents, Profits and Market Value. Technical report. National Bureau of 

Economic Research. 
Kale, Jayant R., Shahrur, Husayn, 2007. Corporate capital structure and the characteristics of suppliers and customers. J. Financ. Econ. 83 (2), 321–365. 
Kim, Hyunseob, Kung, Howard, 2017. The asset redeployability channel: how uncertainty affects corporate investment. Rev. Financ. Stud. 30 (1), 245–280. 
Klein, Benjamin, Crawford, Robert G., Alchian, Armen A., 1978. Vertical integration, appropriable rents, and the competitive contracting process. J. Law Econ. 21 (2), 

297–326. 
Kogan, Leonid, Papanikolaou, Dimitris, Seru, Amit, Stoffman, Noah, 2017. Technological innovation, resource allocation, and growth. Q. J. Econ. 132 (2), 665–712. 
Kostovetsky, Leonard, Manconi, Alberto, 2020. Common institutional ownership and diffusion of innovation. Available at SSRN 2896372. 
Lafontaine, Francine, Slade, Margaret, 2007. Vertical integration and firm boundaries: the evidence. J. Econ. Lit. 45 (3), 629–685. 
Lewellen, Katharina, Lowry, Michelle, 2021. Does common ownership really increase firm coordination? J. Financ. Econ. 141 (1), 322–344. 
Manso, Gustavo, 2011. Motivating innovation. J. Financ. 66 (5), 1823–1860. 
Martin, Thorsten, Otto, Clemens A., 2017. The effect of hold-up problems on corporate investment: Evidence from import tariff reductions. In: HEC Paris Research 

Paper No. FIN-2017-1208. 
Matvos, Gregor, Ostrovsky, Michael, 2008. Cross-ownership, returns, and voting in mergers. J. Financ. Econ. 89 (3), 391–403. 
Morton, Fiona Scott, Hovenkamp, Herbert, 2017. Horizontal shareholding and anti-trust policy. Yale LJ 127, 2026. 
Newham, Melissa, Seldeslachts, Jo, Banal-Estanol, Albert, 2018. Common ownership and market entry: Evidence from pharmaceutical industry. 
Ojeda, Waldo, 2018. Common Ownership in the Loan Market. University of California, Berkeley.  
Porter, Michael E., 1992. Capital disadvantage: America’s failing capital investment system. Harv. Bus. Rev. 70 (5), 65–82. 
Posner, Eric A., Scott Morton, Fiona M., Weyl, E. Glen, 2016. A proposal to limit the anti-competitive power of institutional investors. Antitrust Law J. 81, 669. 
Rogerson, William P., 1992. Contractual solutions to the hold-up problem. Rev. Econ. Stud. 59 (4), 777–793. 

30



X. Chen                                                                                                                                                                        P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F in a n c e  J o u r n a l 87 (2024) 102478

Schmalz, Martin C., 2018. Common-ownership concentration and corporate conduct. Annu. Rev. Financ. Econ. 10, 413–448. 
Seru, Amit, 2014. Firm boundaries matter: evidence from conglomerates and R&D activity. J. Financ. Econ. 111 (2), 381–405. 
Shahrur, Husayn, 2005. Industry structure and horizontal takeovers: analysis of wealth effects on rivals, suppliers, and corporate customers. J. Financ. Econ. 76 (1), 

61–98. 
Tian, Xuan, Wang, Tracy Yue, 2014. Tolerance for failure and corporate innovation. Rev. Financ. Stud. 27 (1), 211–255. 
Williamson, Oliver E., 1971. The vertical integration of production: market failure considerations. Am. Econ. Rev. 61 (2), 112–123. 
Williamson, Oliver E., 1975. Markets and Hierarchies. New York, 2630. 

31