Spillover effects within supply chains: Evidence from Chinese-listed firms 

 

Xunxiao Wang 

School of Statistics and Management 

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics, Shanghai 200433, China 

Email: wang.xunxiao@sufe.edu.cn 

 

 

Shibo Bian (Corresponding author) 

School of Statistics and Management 

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics, Shanghai 200433, China 

Email: bian.shibo@sufe.edu.cn 

 

 

Chongfeng Wu 

Antai College of Economics and Management 

Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200030, China 

Email: cfwu@sjtu.edu.cn 

  

1 
 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Spillover effects within supply chains: Evidence from Chinese-listed firms 

Abstract: There is increasing attention on information transfers along supply chain 

partners for firm (extreme) events. This growing literature finds spillover effects 

following certain types of firm events. Using data from credit rating actions of Chinese-

listed firms over the period between March 2007 and May 2020, we examine the 

spillover effects of supply chains by focusing on the market reactions of event firms to 

the action announcements. We find strong evidence of spillover effects driven by the 

market reactions of event firms, which are enhanced through information diffusion 

channels as supply chain partners receive more investor attention. Moreover, the effects 

are stronger when event firms’ market reactions are negative, event firms are non-

stated-owned, the industry concentration of event firms is higher, or the supplier-

customer business relationship is closer. Overall, these findings highlight the role of 

investor attention in addition to network characteristics in supply chain spillovers. 

Keywords: Spillover effects; Supply chains; Market reactions; Credit rating; 

Information diffusion 

  

2 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



1. Introduction 

This study investigates the spillover effects of supply chains in China by focusing 

on the market reactions of firms to announcements of credit rating actions such as rating 

changes, credit watches and outlooks. While previous research has extensively explored 

the wealth effects of adverse extreme events such as bankruptcy filings and natural 

disasters (e.g., Hertzel et al. 2008; Houston et al. 2016; Kolay et al. 2016; Jacobson and 

von Schedvin 2015; Hendricks et al. 2020), there may be little exploration into whether 

spillover effects driven by stock market reactions of credit rating actions exist and, if 

so, what affects them. This study focuses on the idea that firms in the supply chain will 

experience comovements during credit rating events. We are concerned about the credit 

rating actions because they are more common, cover more firms and hence would have 

more comprehensive effects along the supply chain. 

Indeed, Chang et al. (2015) recently explore the information effects of bond rating 

downgrades along the supply chains. They find that suppliers experience significant 

credit spread increases during customers’ bond rating downgrades. This indicates that 

the announcement of credit rating downgrades has credit contagion effects on 

downgraded firms’ suppliers. However, we focus on spillover effects in stock markets 

driven by market reactions of all credit rating actions. In addition to rating changes, 

credit rating agencies issue other rating actions, such as credit watches and rating 

outlooks, which also contain valuable information (Cantor and Mann 2007; Chung et 

al. 2012). Given the importance of credit watches and rating outlooks actions, it is 

reasonable to believe that these actions may have spillover effects in the supply chain. 

Moreover, there is scarce empirical evidence on spillover effects of credit rating actions 

in the supply chain of emerging economies, particularly in China, where the market for 

firm crediting ratings is large and growing. Credit ratings have become more important 

3 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



for Chinese firms since 2005 when the People’s Bank of China issued the measures for 

the administration of short-term financing bonds. Credit rating is a reliable passport for 

firms to obtain government support and external financing, which is widely concerned 

by suppliers, customers and investors of firms. Thus, these facts emphasize the 

importance of our investigation. 

Our focus on China’s supply chain is driven by the unique characteristics of its firms, 

which differ from those in developed countries. One particular feature is that state-

owned firms account for a large proportion in China’s economic market.1 Compared 

with non-state-owned firms, the state-owned firms with closer ties to the government 

are more likely to obtain scarce resources such as preferential loans and tax exemptions, 

which makes state-owned firms usually in a strong position in the market (Shleifer and 

Vishny 1994; Allen et al. 2005), and have relatively soft budget constraints (Cunat 

2007). With these arguments in mind, it is important to explore the spillover effects of 

credit rating actions in the Chinese supply chains. Another important feature is the 

relatively lower level of industrial concentration among firms in China compared to 

developed countries. The industrial concentration affects the implications of spillover 

effects in the supply chain (Gosman et al. 2004; Hertzel et al. 2008). Furthermore, 

Chinese firms are involved in a wide range of industries, which is an important feature 

of the development of emerging economies. Credit rating events cover almost all 

industries, which may make our results of supply chain spillovers more representative. 

To explore the existence of spillover effects among the firms in the supply chain, 

we examine the relationship between the abnormal returns of an event firm and the 

abnormal returns of the portfolio of suppliers and customers. We focus on the market 

                                                     
1 By May 2020, the number of state-owned enterprises in the listed companies’ accounts for about 
28%, and their outstanding market value accounts for about 46%. 

4 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



reaction of an event firm rather than the event itself. The basic intuition behind these 

analyses is as follows: provided that supplier firm and customer firm are each other’s 

stakeholders, the change of a firm’s credit rating, especially the unexpected component 

of the change, often predicts the change of the performance and financial health of its 

suppliers and customers, thus generating spillover effects in the supply chain. More 

specifically, information about rating changes is exchanged not only between supply 

chain partners, but also among their investors. Rating changes, especially those are 

unanticipated, will cause market reactions under the market expectation theory (Smith 

1986), and further lead to stock price reactions of other stakeholders under the 

hypothesis of investor attention (Hou et al. 2009). Thus, the abnormal market reaction 

to an event is more important than the event’s characteristics with regard to spillovers 

in the supply chain. Above all, the market reaction conditions the market’s expectations 

about the credit rating change (credit watch or outlook) event; therefore, the market 

reaction better captures the surprise component associated with rating changes (credit 

watches or outlooks) compared to the changes themselves. In other words, whether the 

market participants view the rating change (credit watch or outlook) of an event firm 

favorably or unfavorably is more meaningful than whether the rating change (credit 

watch or outlook) of the firm is upgraded or downgraded (positive or negative). Indeed, 

we find that the market evaluation of a firm by an event plays an important role in 

determining the characteristics of spillover effects in the supply chain. 

The central finding of our study is that suppliers and customers as a whole 

experience significant spillover effects driven by the market reactions of event firms to 

credit rating actions such as rating changes, credit watches, and outlooks. This finding 

is robust to endogeneity, estimation approaches for abnormal returns, and event 

windows. This novel finding provides direct evidence that credit rating actions have a 

5 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



greater economy-wide impact, in addition to the previously documented effects only on 

the event firms. The spillover effects are economically significant. On average, a one 

standard deviation increase in the market reaction of an event firm is associated with a 

1.65% increase in the CAR(0,4) of nonevent firms in the supply chain. 

To explore the information channel of our documented spillover effects, we 

augment our specification with indicator variables for investor attention and find that 

this factor has a substantial effect. The spillover effects are 3.4 times larger if both 

supply chain partners are being followed by more of the same analysts. Meanwhile, the 

spillover effects are 1.4 times larger if both supply chain partners are being covered by 

more of the same media. Thus, the spillover effect becomes more pronounced when 

information about supply chains improves. 

To drill further down, we conduct several cross-sectional analyses. Firstly, we 

extend our analyses by comparing negative spillovers with positive spillovers. We refer 

to negative (positive) spillovers as the spillover effects caused by negative (positive) 

market reactions of event firms. Our results show that negative spillovers are more 

dominant than positive spillovers, which are consistent with the argument that negative 

events generally have a larger impact on market participants (Tversky 1979; Soroka 

2006). Secondly, we find that the spillover effects are larger when the event firms are 

non-state-owned. This result suggests that market participants are largely more 

concerned about the credit rating actions of private firms, because they are more 

dependent on private investments and banks loans for growth, while state-owned firms 

are more likely to have access to scarce resources (Cong et al. 2019). Thirdly, we 

examine the relationship between spillover effects and industry concentration. To that 

end, we use the Herfindahl ratio to measure the industry concentration of event firms, 

which is constructed from the sales of event firms for the whole industry. We find that 

6 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



the spillover effects are stronger when the industry concentration of event firms is 

higher. 

Finally, we consider several alternative specifications based on the portfolio of 

suppliers or customers separately. We find that the spillover effects due to credit rating 

actions can spread not only upstream, but downstream as well. This result bolsters our 

evidence on individual suppliers and customers and constitutes new evidence on the 

extent of spillover effects of credit rating events. In addition, the spillover effects to 

suppliers appear to be greater than those to customers. Specifically, we observe that the 

spillover effects to suppliers rather than to customers are amplified when the rating 

change of even firms is across two grades (investment grades and speculative grades) 

or rating agencies have global partners. These results imply that rating changes can 

affect the bargaining powers between suppliers and customers in different ways. 

Moreover, we find that when the level of business relationship between event firms and 

their suppliers and customers is higher, the spillover effects to suppliers and customers 

are both stronger. 

This paper makes several contributions to the existing literature. Firstly, to the best 

of our knowledge, this paper is the first to uncover the spillover effects driven by the 

stock market reaction of an event firm (to credit rating actions) in the supply chain. We 

focus on the abnormal market reaction of event firms rather than whether the events are 

favorable or unfavorable, which captures the surprise component of events better than 

the events themselves. We provide direct evidence that both suppliers and customers 

experience the spillover effects driven by the market reactions of event firms, which 

suggests that the market evaluation of a firm with regard to an event is crucial in order 

to determine the characteristics of spillover effects. Secondly, this paper examines the 

spillover effects of all credit rating actions including credit watches and outlooks in 

7 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



addition to rating changes. Many studies have focused on the impacts of credit rating 

changes, particularly downgrades (e.g., Weinstein 1977; Jorion et al. 2005; Jorion and 

Zhang 2010; Chang et al. 2015; Alldredge et al. 2019), but relatively few have looked 

at the impacts of credit watches and outlooks. Therefore, in a broader sense, our results 

show that credit rating action events have supply chain spillover effects. Thirdly, this 

study contributes to the literature on the role of attention by highlighting that the 

documented spillover effects are stronger if supply chain partners are being followed 

by more of the same analysts or covered by more of the same media. This finding 

improves our understanding of the propagation of firm level shocks through 

information flows along supply chains. Overall, this paper provides valuable insights 

into the spillover effects driven by market reactions of event firms to credit rating 

actions in the supply chain, considers a comprehensive range of credit rating actions, 

and sheds light on the role of attention in shaping spillover effects. 

The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents a review of the 

related literature and develops the hypotheses. Section 3 describes our data and 

empirical approach. Section 4 presents the main empirical results. Section 5 conducts 

further analysis. Section 6 conducts robustness checks. Section 7 concludes the paper. 

2. Related literature and hypothesis development 

2.1. Related literature 

Our paper is closely related to a number of papers on supply chains as channels for 

information in financial markets. This literature has focused on adverse events, such as 

bankruptcies, defaults, credit rating downgrades, and nature disasters (e.g., Hertzel et 

al. 2008; Houston et al. 2016; Jacobson and von Schedvin 2015; Kolay et al. 2016; 

Chang et al. 2015; Hendricks et al. 2020). In contrast,, our paper contributes to this 

8 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



literature by investigating both favorable and adverse shocks, and focusing on the 

market reactions of event firms rather than the events themselves. We find that the 

spillover effect driven by the market reactions of event firms is significantly positive, 

especially the negative spillover driven by negative market reactions is stronger. This 

contributes to the existing literature by highlighting the distinct dynamics of spillover 

effects resulting from market reactions. 

Our paper is also relevant to the literature on information transfer effect of credit 

events on partners along the supply chain. A typical recent work by Chang et al. (2015) 

uses credit default swap (CDS) spread data from Markit and an event-study method to 

estimate credit risk effects of credit rating downgrades on downgraded firms’ suppliers 

and customers. Chang et al. (2015) find that suppliers experience significant credit 

spread increases during rating downgrades. In parallel, Agca et al. (2022) define CDS 

jump events and analyze credit shocks propagate driven by these events through supply 

chains in the CDS market. They find that the CDS jump events result in substantial 

abnormal CDS spread changes for the supply chain partners of the event firm, in the 

same direction as the jumps. Besides rating changes, credit rating agencies also issue 

other rating actions such as credit watches and rating outlooks that contain important 

information, but are overlooked by the prior literature (e.g., Cohen and Frazzini 2008; 

Menzly and Ozbas 2010; Chang et al. 2015; Alldredge et al. 2019; Agca et al. 2022). 

Our paper contributes to this literature by examining the stock market spillover effects 

of credit rating actions through supply chains, including rating changes, credit watches, 

and outlooks. Specifically, we focus on the spillover effects driven by the stock market 

reaction of rating changes, credit watches and outlooks events’ firms. We find that both 

suppliers and customers experience positive spillover effects, which remain robust 

across different types of rating actions. 

9 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Moreover, our paper is connected to the literature that explores how network 

characteristics, such as network centrality (Wu and Birge 2014; Yang and Zhang 2019), 

customer concentration (Cen et al. 2017; Campello and Gao 2017), customer and 

supplier state ownerships (Allen et al. 2005; Cunat 2007), and customer relationships 

(Cen et al. 2016) affect the revenues and valuation of firms. The current paper 

contributes to the prior literature by focusing on the association between spillover 

effects in the supply chain driven by the market reaction of event firms (to credit rating 

actions) and network characteristics. We present evidence that the spillover effects in 

the supply chain are considerably stronger when event firms are non-state-owned. 

Besides, we find that the spillover effects in the supply chain are much greater when 

the supplier-customer relationship is closer, or when the industry concentration of event 

firms is higher. Furthermore, the documented spillover effects for suppliers are 

amplified when the rating change is across two grades (speculative grade ratings and 

investment grade ratings) or rating agencies have global partners.  

Finally, our paper is related to the literature on the importance of investor attention 

for information diffusion. Investors are more selective in information processing due to 

limited attention, which can have an impact on the information diffusion across 

economically linked assets (Peng and Xiong 2006). Hong et al. (2007) show that the 

slow information diffusion of industry news may open up opportunities for stock return 

prediction. By contrast, if investor attention is high, information diffusion is likely to 

be faster. A number of studies have shown that rapid information diffusion in the same 

investment habitats leads to returns comovement for stocks associated with the habitat. 

These include habitats such as the S&P 500 (Vijh 1994; Barberis et al. 2005), 

geography (Pirinsky and Wang 2006; Kumar et al. 2013), and volatility (Dorn and 

Huberman 2010). More recently, Leung et al. (2017) show that stocks within the same 

10 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



cosearch habitats receive high attention from investors and such habitats exhibit high 

similarity in stock returns or comovement. Similar behavior applies to supply chain 

stocks. If investors pay attention to the partner firms, then the information diffusion is 

likely to be high, and, as a result, the stocks are more likely to comove. Our paper 

contributes to this literature by highlighting that customer-supplier networks with 

investor attention have valuable asset pricing implications for the spillover effects 

across debt and equity holders. Our evidence shows that the spillover effects of credit 

shocks in the supply chain are more pronounced as investor attention increases, 

suggesting that information about customer (supplier) credit risk should be incorporated 

into supplier (customer) stock prices when supply chain information improves. 

Methodologically, several studies investigate the spillover effects of new 

information within an industry, across industries, and through supply chains using 

event-study methodology (e.g., Lang and Stulz 1992; Slovin et al. 1999; Hertzel et al. 

2008; Chang et al. 2015; Agca et al. 2022). Our paper contributes to this literature by 

focusing on the market reaction of an event firm rather than the event itself. The market 

reaction captures the surprise component of the rating actions better than the rating 

actions themselves (Joe and Oh 2018). To the best of our knowledge, no existing study 

has used this method to estimate the spillover effects of generic credit rating actions as 

we have done, in the supply chain.  

2.2. Hypotheses 

Capital market efficiency theory suggests that information regarding a firm’s 

financial prospects should flow freely between the stock and the bond markets. Studies 

have found that new information revealed in the bond market has significant impacts 

on firms’ stock prices (Holthausen and Leftwich 1986; Dichev and Piotroski 2001), 

which is especially confirmed by some literatures that find abnormal stock returns 

11 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



around credit rating events (e.g., Dichev and Piotroski 2001; Jorion and Zhang 2007). 

On the other hand, supply chains are a likely channel through which financial shocks 

spread. Supply chains enable flows of physical products and services downstream 

toward customers and financial flows upstream toward manufacturers and the 

producers of raw materials. Alongside these physical and financial flows, there exist 

informational flows that encompass demand forecasts, production capabilities, and the 

financial strength of companies. 

Information is exchanged not only between supply chain partners, but also among 

their investors. Stock returns of economically linked supply chain partners are 

correlated because of related fundamental (Hong et al. 2007) and profits (Menzly and 

Ozbas 2010). It is then expected that investors should pay attention to all stocks in the 

supply chain and information diffuses quickly in the market. However, the hypothesis 

of limited investor attention implies that the information diffuses slowly in the market 

(Hong et al. 2007) and across economically linked assets (Cohen and Frazzini 2008) 

due to limited attention and investor specialization. The literature on attention provides 

consistent evidence that investor attention (or conversely, inattention) to firm-specific 

information and events is associated with positive (negative) capital market effects 

(Hirshleifer and Teoh 2003; Corwin and Coughenour 2008; Hirshleifer et al. 2009; 

Chakrabarty and Moulton 2012). High investor attention across supply chain partners 

represents a higher level of information diffusion that would lead to return 

comovement—i.e., returns tend to move together in the same direction—for such stocks 

in the same time period (Barberis et al. 2005). 

Market anticipation theory advises that markets tend to react more strongly to 

unanticipated firm events than to anticipated firm events because unanticipated firm 

events contain more original information (Smith 1986). Together with that the market 

12 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



reaction captures the surprise component of the rating actions more effectively than the 

rating actions themselves (Joe and Oh 2018), we expect the market response to the 

event of a firm to be transferred from an event firm to other firms in the supply chain. 

In other words, the market evaluation of a firm with regard to an event should be crucial 

in order to determine the characteristics of spillover effects in the supply chain. 

Furthermore, if investors pay attention to the partner firms, then the information 

diffusion is likely to be high and as a result, the stocks are more likely to comove 

(Agarwal et al. 2017). Collectively, these lead to our main hypothesis: 

Hypothesis 1a. Supply chain partners experience spillover effects driven by the 

market reactions of event firms (to credit rating actions). 

Hypothesis 1b. The spillover effects are enhanced through information diffusion 

channels as supply chain partners receive more investor attention. 

3. Data and Methodology 

3.1. Data 

Our data are collected from two sources: WIND database provided by the Wind 

Information Co., Ltd. for Chinese firms’ credit rating action data and scattered 

customer-supplier relationship data, and China Stock Market & Accounting Research 

(CSMAR) database for financial and accounting data. In what follows we describe in 

detail our sample selection procedure. 

The primary dataset we examine is the announcement of credit rating actions. 

Initially, we download 6,555 rating action events from the WIND database between 

March 2007 and May 2020. Subsequently, we exclude 4,827 events of firms that do not 

have stock returns. Additionally, we eliminate 120 events that are sequentially close. 

To focus on the contagion of credit rating actions, we further exclude other firm-

13 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



specific information such as earning announcements, mergers and acquisitions, and 

seasoned equity offerings within nineteen business days (-9,9) of the event date of the 

credit rating actions.2 This rigorous screening process generates our preliminary sample 

that consists of 1,596 credit rating action events with 315 events for credit watches 

actions only and 326 events for outlook actions only. 

Our other major data set is the lists of customer-supplier relationships. The data for 

supplier-customer relationships is scattered but available from firm-specific public 

files.3 To gather information regarding the major suppliers and customers of Chinese 

public firms that have undergone credit rating actions between 2007 and 2020, we 

follow a series of steps. Firstly, we employ a text-matching program to match the event 

firm’s name to the one of WIND segment ’network’ file.4 The files, collected by WIND 

Data Services, are sourced from the firm’s periodic reports (i.e., quarterly reports and 

annual reports). They contain valuable information about the firm’s upstream and 

downstream business names, stock tickers (if listed), accounts receivable, accounts 

payable, sales and reporting dates over time period 2006-2020. It is important to note 

that the WIND network file of a firm is named after the firm itself, and the list of 

suppliers and customers of the firm may vary across different years. A practical 

difficulty is that a small number of WIND network files are named after the abbreviated 

forms of the firms’ names. To address this problem, similar to practice in Fee and 

Thomas (2004), the program requires all of the Chinese Hanzi characters in the reported 

network file name to be sequentially presented in the potential match. Subsequently, 

we visually inspect each match generated by the text-matching program to ensure 

                                                     
2 We apply these screening criteria to event firms and other partner firms in supply chains. Similar 
practice can be seen in Joe and Oh (2018). 
3 Since 2005, more companies in China have voluntarily disclosed the sales and names of their top 
five customers and suppliers in their quarterly reports or annual reports. 
4 The text-matching program code is available upon request. 

14 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



accuracy. This visual inspection involves some discretion, but it is conducted in a 

conservative manner that ensures all matches are certain. This matching process 

produces accurate matches approximately accounting for 94% of total potential 

matches, excluding all of the possible event–network pairs if there are multiple potential 

matches and we cannot choose the unique match by screening the available public 

information (firm web sites, annual reports, and Baidu). 

Similarly to Hertzel et al. (2008) who document a negative valuation effect of a 

customer’s bankruptcy filings on its suppliers, all matches are restricted to the two years 

prior to (and including) the rating action event year. If the matching process produces 

multiple matches between firm-pairs over the two-year pre-event period, we choose the 

match-year closest to the event year. Then, we eliminate the cases where the supplier 

or customer’s name is not matched to a unique firm. Subsequently, we exclude the firm-

pairs without daily financial data available for the supplier or customer. Finally, to focus 

on the spillover effects stemming from credit rating action announcements within the 

supply chain, each event firm must have at least one supplier or customer. 

Our sample selection procedure produces a total of 769 events, and the distribution 

of these events over time is shown in Table 1. The sample contains 276 events of firms 

that have at least one customer, 624 events firms that have at least one supplier, and 

131 events of firms that have at least one customer and one supplier. In addition, our 

final sample consists of 1,477 event-customer or -supplier observations, spanning 

across 150 industries. The sample events are concentrated in the time period 2010 to 

2020, which contains 711 of the 769 events (92%) of the total sample. The time 

distribution of our sample of events is representative of total events over this period (as 

reported in the second column of the table), which breaks down over the same time 

15 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



period as 94%. The time-clustering of our sample could reflect variation in firms 

voluntarily reporting the identity of major customers or suppliers. 

For the full sample of 769 events of firms with at least one supplier or customer, 

we identify a total of 345 suppliers and 139 customers. However, our analysis of 

supply-chain spillover effects is mainly based on the portfolios of suppliers and 

customers for each event. The majority of the customer and supplier portfolios have 

only one firm. As reported in the table, the average numbers of suppliers and customers 

per event are 1.1 and 1.2. 

Motivated by the evidence in prior literature that being a state-owned firm might 

differentiate a non-state-owned firm in terms of creditworthiness, and its credit rating 

actions have different influences on financial markets (see, for example, Allen et al. 

2005; Cull and Xu 2005; Lu et al. 2012), we divide our event sample into two 

subsamples: the announcements of state-owned firms and non-state-owned firms. There 

are 380 (389) events of (non-) state-owned firms that have at least one supplier or one 

customer in our final sample. For brevity, the distribution of these two subsamples is 

not tabulated. 

Table 2 summarizes the variables for our sample of 769 event firms.5 The mean 

(median) book value of total assets is ¥135.1 (15.5) billion. The return on assets (ROA), 

which is calculated by the ratio of net income to total assets, is on average 1.4%. 

However, the distribution of ROA is highly skewed, with a median of 0.9%. The mean 

(median) leverage is 63.2% (62.0%), and the book to market ratio is 0.81 (0.85). The 

mean (median) of cash holdings to total assets is 8.5% (6.4%). 

                                                     
5 Table A1 in Appendix A provides the descriptive statistics of variables for event firms in more 
details, including the minimum, first quartile, median, mean, third quartile, maximum, and standard 
deviation. 

16 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Table 2 also shows the descriptive statistics of our event firms in the two 

subsamples: state-owned firms and non-state-owned firms. The mean Size of state-

owned firms is ¥22.6 billion, which is larger than that of non-state-owned firms (¥15.7 

billion). Particularly, the mean book to market ratio of state-owned firms is significantly 

higher than that of non-state-owned firms. This is consistent with the idea that state-

owned firms tend to be more profitable and mature than non-state-owned firms. 

3.2. Methodology 

This paper investigates the spillover effects within the supply chain by focusing on 

the market reactions of event firms to credit rating actions in the supply chain. For each 

event, we construct a portfolio of suppliers and customers if exist, resulting in a total of 

769 portfolios. 

Next, we employ the standard event study methodology (Brown and Warner 1985) 

that calculates the abnormal returns (ARs) and the cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) 

for event firms by using the market model that follows the event dates of credit rating 

actions. The model also estimates the ARs and CARs for the supplier and customer 

portfolios for each event by using the portfolio approach.6 The AR for the stock of firm 

i at time t is computed as follows: 

 AR  R  ˆ ˆ
it it  i  i Rmt  , (1) 

where Rit and Rmt are the daily returns for the stock of firm i at time t and the daily 

market index (Shanghai Composite Stock Price Index) return at time t, respectively. 

The parameters ˆ  and ˆ  are the ordinary least squares estimates of the intercept and 
i i

slope, respectively, of the market model regression estimated using 180 daily returns 

                                                     
6  The portfolio approach allows us to diversify away the cross-sectional dependence of 
individual returns (see, for example, Hertzel et al. 2008; Bae et al. 2008; Joe and Oh 2018). 

17 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



beginning with day t =−200 and ending with t =−21 relative to the credit rating action 

date. We construct the CARi between any two dates t1 and t2 by cumulating daily 

abnormal returns from day t1 to t2. We follow a similar approach to Hertzel et al. (2008) 

to estimate the CARs of supplier and customer portfolios by using equal weighting in 

order to understand effectively the spillover effects within supply chains. 

4. Main results 

4.1. Baseline results 

Table 3 shows the spillover effects that are driven by the market reactions of event 

firms. For each event, we form an equal-weighted portfolio of nonevent firms (suppliers 

and customers) in the supply chain, and calculate the portfolio return. The average 

return of nonevent firms is the average of these portfolio returns over all events. To 

unambiguously investigate the relation between the returns of event and nonevent firms, 

we report the average portfolio returns of nonevent firms separately for two subsamples. 

These subsamples are formed based on the sign of the CARs of event firms. 

The results show that the average two-day and five-day CARs of event firms with 

negative market reactions to credit rating actions are −4.02% and −4.55%, respectively, 

both of which are significant at the 1% level. The average two-day and five-day CARs 

for the corresponding nonevent firms show significant average excess returns of −1.64% 

and −1.58%, respectively. Meanwhile, we also find that the average two-day and five-

day CARs of event firms with positive market reactions to credit rating actions are 3.10% 

and 3.75%, respectively. Both of those are statistically significant at the 1% level. The 

average two-day and five-day CARs for the corresponding nonevent firms are 1.25% 

and 1.64%, respectively, both of which are significant at the 1% level. These findings 

18 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



suggest that the credit rating actions of one firm have spillover effects on the other 

members in its supply chain. 

As a further test for spillover effects along supply chains, we conduct regression 

analyses. In Table 4, we show the market reaction of an event firm to be an important 

factor in explaining spillover effects within supply chains. We use the five-day 

CARs(0,4) of nonevent firms (suppliers or customers) in supply chains as the dependent 

variables. Our key explanatory variable of interest is Market Reaction, which is the 

five-day CAR(0,4) of an event firm. In Panel A, we use Market Reaction as the 

explanatory variable in regression (1). In regression (2), we add firm-level explanatory 

variables that are listed in Table 2 together with Credit Rating, which represents the 

credit rating of an event firm.7 In regression (3), we further add year dummies and 

industry dummies to consider the year and industry fixed effects. Unreported results 

show that the variance inflation factor (VIF) test has a maximum variance inflation 

factor of 4.2 and a mean variance inflation factor of 1.2 (omitted for brevity), suggesting 

that multicollinearity is not a concern. 

We focus on the five-day CAR(0,4) rather than the CARs of the short event periods 

such as the two-day CAR(0,1) in our regression analyses because the latter may take 

time to be reflected in the market by an event. This is consistent with the conventional 

wisdom that emerging markets, including the Chinese market, are less efficient than the 

developed markets. For example, the daily price upper and lower limits for all stocks 

in the Chinese stock market are 10% and −10%, respectively. This is one example of a 

hindrance to market efficiency. The price limit rules suggest that market participants 

may continue to react even after the announcements of credit rating actions. In addition, 

                                                     
7 Table A1 in Appendix A provides the correlation matrix between all the variables in our main 
analysis. Table B1 in Appendix B describes categories for credit ratings and the numerical scale 
used in our analyses. 

19 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



we use an ex post event window such as the five-day CAR(0,4), rather than an ex ante 

event window such as the nine-day CAR(-4,4), to facilitate the analysis of spillover 

effects driven by the market reactions of event firms. Similarly to Joe and Oh (2018) 

who report the stock-price effects of Korean business groups by using the 

announcement of credit rating changes, we focus on the market reactions of event firms 

to the announcements of credit rating actions rather than the events themselves. 

Generally, ex ante periods are used on the assumption that information about an event 

can be leaked before the announcement. Therefore, using the five-day CAR(0,4) is the 

adaptive way to examine the spillover effects that are driven by market reactions.8 

The results documented in Panel A in Table 4 show that the initial coefficient on 

Market Reaction in regression (1) is 0.224 and significant at the 1% level. After 

controlling other firm characteristics in regression (2), and year and industry effects in 

regression (3), the coefficients on Market Reaction remain significantly positive. 

Evaluating the estimated coefficient in regression (3) at the mean indicates that all else 

being constant, a 10% increase in the market reaction of an event firm results in about 

a 1.97% increase in the CARs of other firms in the supply chain. To put it in a different 

perspective, the abnormal return for nonevent firms increases by 1.65% as the market 

reaction of an event firm increases by one standard deviation (8.40%). Therefore, the 

effect of credit rating action events on the market value of nonevent firms seems to be 

both statistically and economically significant. 

The results of Panel B in Table 4 continue to show that spillover effects are 

pervasive in the subsamples of credit rating changes, credit watches and outlook events. 

In particular, for rating outlook, the coefficient on Market Reaction is significant at the 

                                                     
8 We also use event windows (0,2), (0,6), (-1,1) and (-2,0) for analysis later to check the robustness 
of our results. We find that our main conclusions remain intact. 

20 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



1% level, with an estimate of 0.876 larger than the estimate for the rating watch (0.543) 

and rating changes (0.166) scenarios. These results are important because they provide 

direct evidence that just like the credit rating changes mentioned in the previous 

literature, credit watch and outlooks events of one firm will also have spillover effects 

on other firms in the supply chain. It is worth noting that not only credit rating change 

events, but also credit watch and outlook events often occur. Therefore, in a broader 

sense, our results clearly show that credit rating action events have supply chain 

spillover effects. More importantly, our results are consistent with the view that the 

market evaluation of an event firm plays an important role in determining the 

characteristics of spillover effects in supply chains. 

4.2. Endogeneity tests 

Although we report a significant spillover effects in the supply chain, it is possible 

that our main results are influenced by endogeneity. For example, endogeneity could 

arise if the market reactions of both event firms and nonevent firms are influenced by 

unobservable or omitted factors. Another concern is reverse causality. In fact, we 

investigate the lead and lag relationship between event firms and nonevent firms in 

supply chains to understand the spillover effects more accurately. Specifically, we 

regress the lead terms of CARs for nonevent firms on the lag terms of CARs for event 

firms in supply chains and vice versa. We find that causality dose not run from nonevent 

firms to event firms (not tabulated for brevity). This practice partly mitigates the issue 

of reverse causality. Importantly, given that credit rating events are largely exogenous, 

it is implausible that nonevent firms could accurately predict them, and cause the 

market reaction of event firms. Nevertheless, we address potential endogeneity 

concerns in our study in several additional ways, such as using Heckman two-stage 

regression analysis, using instrumental variable (IV) regression analysis, and 

21 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



conducting placebo analysis. 

4.2.1. Heckman selection 

Companies in China voluntarily disclosed the sales and names of their top five 

customers and suppliers in their quarterly reports or annual reports since 2005. Because 

customer and supplier information sometimes is proprietary for a firm, the firm may 

not willing to disclose it. This may open up the possibility of sample bias. To control 

for the unobservable omitted variables related to the selection issue, we adopt a 

Heckman two-stage model. 

In the first stage, we model the probability that a firm will disclose information on 

its top five customers and suppliers using probit regression. The dependent variable is 

a dummy variable (Disclosure) set equal to one if a firm discloses the identities of its 

major customers and suppliers, and zero otherwise. To satisfy the exclusion restriction, 

we include the fraction of other companies in the same industry that disclose 

information on their top five customers and suppliers in the same year (denoted as 

Otherratio) as an independent variable. In an increasingly high-quality disclosure 

market environment, when the number of other companies in the same industry 

disclosing the customer and supplier information increases, we expect a company to 

tend to actively disclose information about its major customers and suppliers, but we 

have no reason to expect that Otherratio will impact its market reactions. Therefore, 

Otherratio can serve as an exogenous determinant of the likelihood that a company 

might disclose its top five customers and suppliers. 

Additionally, we include controls for firm characteristics that may affect the 

company’s disclosure of customer and supplier information, which include return on 

assets (ROA), growth rate (Growth), the ratio of total debt to the book value of total 

assets (Leverage), total assets (Size), and the number of years elapse since the year of 

22 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



the company’s IPO (Firmage) (Ellis et al. 2012). From the first stage model, we 

estimate the inverse Mills ratio, which we include in the second stage model to control 

for potential selection bias. 

Panel A of Table 5 reports the results from the first stage probit regression in our 

Heckman two-stage selection model. Consistent with our expectations that the more 

other firms in the industry that already disclose customer and supplier information, the 

more likely a firm is to voluntarily disclose customer and supplier information, we find 

that the coefficient on the exclusion restriction variable, Otherratio, is positive and 

significant. We also find that Disclosure is positively associated with ROA, Growth, 

Size and Firmage, and is negatively correlated with Leverage. 

Panel B of Table 5 reports the results of controlling for the potential sample 

selection bias. For brevity, we report only the parameter estimate of Market Reaction. 

We find that the coefficient on Market Reaction is significantly positive. This result 

shows the robustness of our main findings to this selection bias adjustment. 

4.2.2. IV regression estimation using heteroskedasticity-based instruments 

To further address causality, we employ an IV approach with heteroskedasticity-

based instruments following Lewbel (2012). This technique does not rely on an external 

instrument and instead uses heteroskedasticity in the data to generate internal 

instruments for the two-stage least squares (2SLS) regression. Lewbel (2012) suggests 

that this identification technique is especially helpful when external instruments are 

weak or not available. Furthermore, as discussed in Lewbel (2012), this approach is 

suitable for many models with error correlation due to unobserved common shocks. 

Recent studies apply this identification approach to address endogeneity problems 

(Caliendo et al. 2017; Chen et al. 2021; Hasan et al. 2021). 

 

23 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



In our setting, instruments can be formed from the auxiliary equation’s residuals 

multiplied by each of the included exogenous variables in mean-centered form. 

Specifically, we follow Lewbel (2012) to generate IVs based on the following equation: 

 IV   , (
j  X )

j  X   2  

where X is each of the exogenous variables in our main model, i.e., Size, ROA, 

Leverage, B/M, Cash, and Credit Rating; X  is the mean of the exogenous variable; 

and   is the residual from the auxiliary regression of Market Reaction (i.e., the event 

firm’s five-day CAR) on all exogenous variables (Size, ROA, etc.). Thus, we generate 

as many IVs as the number of exogenous variables in our main model. Next, we use 

these generated IVs to run the 2SLS regressions based on our main models with Market 

Reaction as the endogenous variable. 

The results of Lewbel’s analysis are reported in Table 6. The Kleibergen-Paap F 

statistics indicate that our instruments are sufficiently strong (with p-value less than 

0.1). Based on the Hansen J statistics, the overidentification restrictions are satisfied 

(with p-value above 0.1). Moreover, the results with regard to Shea’s partial R2, F-test 

of excluded instruments, and Kleibergen-Paap rank LM statistic also show that our 

choice of the instruments is reasonable. We observe that our main findings remain 

robust. The coefficient for Market Reaction is positive and significant at the 1% level. 

Thus, Lewbel’s method estimation supports our argument that our documented 

spillover effects propagate through the supply chain and that our results are not an 

artifact of unobserved common shocks. 

4.2.3. Placebo tests 

Finally, we conduct three placebo tests to mitigate the potential endogenous 

concern about omitted variables. The first test is cross-sectional randomization, where 

the market reactions for event firms are randomized within a given year. The second 

24 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



test implements a randomization procedure within a given industry, in which the market 

reactions for event firms are randomized within a given industry. The third test 

implements a randomization procedure within a given supplier/customer industry, in 

which on each event day we randomly select one other firm in the same industry as 

supplier/customer and calculate its market reaction. 

For the first two procedures, we obtain a fictitious market reaction of event firms, 

defined as Pseudo Market Reaction. For the third procedure, we get a fictitious market 

reaction of other firms in the same industry as supplier/customer, defined as Pseudo 

Market Reactionother. These random procedures are all conducted one thousand times 

to produce one thousand random samples. We then reestimate our main results with the 

Pseudo Market Reaction or Pseudo Market Reactionother from these random samples. 

Specifically, for the first two types of random samples, the market reaction of nonevent 

firms is regressed on Pseudo Market Reaction; while for the last type of random sample, 

Pseudo Market Reactionother is regressed on the market reaction of event firms (i.e., 

Market Reaction). Table 7 summarizes the coefficient estimates. The mean values of 

estimated coefficients are close to zero in both case with and without control variables. 

The t-tests for the mean show that the average coefficient estimates are not significantly 

different from zero. The evidence suggests that our main findings are unlikely to be 

driven by chance. 

4.3. Channel analysis 

The preceding analysis shows a robust supply chain spillover effect driven by 

event firm’s market reactions. A remaining question is how the spillover effects 

propagate along the supply chain. To answer this question, we examine a plausible 

channel through which the market reactions of event firms influence the market 

reactions of nonevent firms in the supply chain. 

25 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Due to related fundamentals and profits, stock returns of economically linked 

firms such as supply chain partners are correlated (Hong et al. 2007; Menzly and Ozbas 

2010). Investors thus should pay attention to all stocks in the supply chain and 

information diffuses quickly in the market. However, because of limited attention and 

investor specialization, the information may diffuse slowly in the market (Hong et al. 

2007) and across economically linked assets (Cohen and Frazzini 2008; Menzly and 

Ozbas 2010). High investor attention across supply chain partners can represent a 

higher level of information diffusion that would lead to return comovement in the same 

time period (Barberis et al. 2005). Motivated by these facts, we study whether investor 

attention to supply chain partners affects the propagation of the supply chain spillovers 

we document. 

We use the number of analysts and the number of media coverage as proxies for 

investor attention (Hirshleifer and Teoh 2003; Barber and Odean 2008). For analysts, 

we use information about equity analysts as reported in CSMAR data set, and obtain 

the total number of analysts following the supplier firm, the customer firm, or both 

simultaneously in the six months prior to the date of the rating change, respectively. 

We then define three indicator variables for this analysis: Supplier Analyst, Customer 

Analyst, and Common Analyst, which equal one if the number of analysts following the 

supplier firm, the customer firm, or both is higher than its sample median, respectively. 

For media coverage, we use raw media coverage data from Datago,9 based on which 

we obtain the total number of media coverage for supplier firm, customer firm or both 

in the six months prior to the date of the rating change, respectively. We then define 

three indicator variables: Supplier Media, Customer Media, and Common Media, which 

equal one if the number of media coverage for supplier firm, customer firm or both is 

                                                     
9 See https://www.datago.com.hk. 

26 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



higher than its sample median, respectively. We have these variables interact with 

Market Reaction. The results are in Table 8. 

Table 8 shows that the propagation of documented spillover effects through supply 

chains is stronger when supply chain partners are followed by more of the same analysts 

or reported by more of the same media. For example, in column (4) of Panel A in Table 

8, although a 10% increase in the market reaction of an event firm results in about a 

1.86% increase in the CARs of other firms in the supply chain, the increase is 4.45% 

larger (making the overall response 3.4 times larger) if the same analysts are following 

both supply chain partners. Similarly, as shown in column (4) of Panel B in Table 8, 

although a 10% increase in the market reaction of an event firm results in about a 2.84% 

increase in the CARs of other firms in the supply chain, the increase is 1.24% larger 

(making the overall response 1.4 times larger) if the same media reports both supply 

chain partners. 

To summarize, the amplified reaction when supply chain partners are followed by 

more of the same analysts or reported by more of the same media points toward the 

informational channel of shock propagation in the stock market through supply chains. 

This indicates that our results reflect the propagation of firm level shocks through the 

information diffusion as investor pay more attention across supply chain partners. 

4.4. Cross-sectional tests 

4.4.1. Negative spillovers vs. positive spillovers 

Our evidence thus far suggests the spillover effects of credit rating actions of one 

firm on other firms in the supply chain. However, our results are suggestive that the 

sign of CARs of event firms may leave behind valuable credit-relevant information. 

Therefore, we ask whether the negative spillovers caused by negative market reactions 

are stronger than positive spillovers caused by positive market reactions. 

27 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



To test this issue, in regression (1) in Table 9 we include the dummy variable 

Positive Reaction, which takes a value of one if the market reaction of an event firm is 

positive and zero otherwise. We also add the interaction term between Market Reaction 

and Positive Reaction, in which Market Reaction is the market reaction of an event firm. 

We find that the coefficients on both Market Reaction and its interaction with Positive 

Reaction are negative and significant. This finding suggests that the negative spillovers 

driven by negative market reactions are stronger than the positive spillovers driven by 

positive market reactions. Our evidence is consistent with the idea that bad news tends 

to spread more widely and strongly than good news (Gande and Parsley 2005; Soroka 

2006; Ferreira and Gama 2007). 

4.4.2. State-owned firms vs. non-state-owned firms 

This section investigates whether the spillover effects are different between event 

firms with state ownership and those without state ownership. To conduct this analysis, 

we augment the base model by incorporating the dummy variable State-owned that 

takes a value of one if the event firm is state-owned and zero otherwise, and an 

interaction term between State-owned and Market Reaction. 

In regression (2) in Table 9, the coefficient for the interaction term is negative and 

significant negative at the 10% level. This result suggests that the positive relationship 

between the excess returns of event firms and the excess returns of nonevent firms in 

supply chains is stronger when the event firms are non-state-owned. One potential 

explanation for these results is that being a non-state-owned firm might differentiate a 

state-owned firm in terms of creditworthiness (Cull and Xu 2005; Allen et al. 2005), 

and non-state-owned firms have less availability of credit when monetary policy is tight 

(Lu et al. 2012). Thus, the state ownership for event firms is relevant information 

beyond the credit rating level for the market’s assessment of its credit-risk, and these 

28 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



differences mentioned above lead to greater spillover effects when event firms are non-

state-owned. 

It is worth noting that the coefficient on Market Reaction can be purely interpreted 

as spillover effects associated with the credit rating actions of non-state-owned event 

firms. The coefficients estimated on Market Reaction in regressions (2) retains the 

statistical significance at the 1% level. Taken together with the significant coefficient 

on the interaction term, our evidence shows that the spillover effects are more 

economically significant when the event firms are non-state-owned. Moreover, the 

substantially increased adjusted R2 in regression (2) in Table 9 compared with those in 

Panel A in Table 4 also reflects that the state ownership status of event firms is a 

potentially important factor in spillover effects driven by market reactions. 

4.4.3. Spillover effects and industry concentration 

When the number of suppliers in the market is small or the number of alternative 

customers is large, suppliers are less likely to be influenced by their major customers 

(Porter 1979; Cunat 2007). Conversely, when the number of suppliers in the market is 

small or the number of alternative customers is large, customers are more likely to be 

influenced by their major suppliers. These arguments suggest that the nonevent firms 

tend to experience a stronger spillover effect when the industry concentration degree of 

event firms is higher. 

To test this prediction, we use the Herfindahl ratio constructed from the sales of 

event firms for the whole industry. Using the Herfindahl ratio, we define a dummy 

variable (High Concentration), which takes a value of one if the Herfindahl ratio is 

above its cross-sectional median for the same year and zero otherwise. The traditional 

view mention above predicts that the coefficient on the interaction term between Market 

Reaction and High Concentration is positive and significant. 

29 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



The result is shown in regression (3) in Table 9. The coefficients on Market 

Reaction and the interaction term are both significantly positive. This confirms that the 

positive relationship between the excess returns for the event firms and the excess 

returns for the other firms in the supply chain is stronger when the industry 

concentration degree of event firms is higher. 

5. Further analysis 

5.1. Suppliers’ reactions vs. customers’ reactions 

The aforementioned analysis has focused mostly on the spillover effects from 

event firms to the whole nonevent firms. However, the reactions of suppliers and 

customers can be different since rating changes can affect the bargaining powers 

between suppliers and customers in different ways. Moreover, the direction of 

spillovers to nonevent firms along the supply chain can be different when industry peers 

of event firms react negatively or positively in their stock markets. With these issues in 

mind, we further look into the average five-day CARs for the event firms, suppliers and 

customers in supply chains when the industry peers of event firms react negatively or 

positively in their stock markets. We classify our event samples into two subsamples 

according to the sign of the CARs of event firms. We then further divide the subsamples 

according to the sign of the CARs of event firm’s industry peers.10 

Table 10 shows that when peers’ reactions are negative and positive, the average 

five-day CARs of event firms with negative market reactions to credit rating actions 

are −5.39% and −1.31%, respectively, both of which are significant at the 1% level. 

When the peers’ reactions are negative (positive), the average five-day CARs for the 

                                                     
10 To see more clearly the difference between the impact of the stock market reaction of event firms 
and the impact of the event itself, we have shown the market reactions of event firms, suppliers, 
customers and peers to rating downgrades and upgrades in Table C1 in Appendix C. For brevity, the 
impact of watches and outlooks is not reported, but is available upon request. 

30 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



suppliers and customers show significant average excess returns of −3.07% (−3.08%) 

and −1.04% (−1.66%), respectively. In parallel, when peers’ reactions are negative and 

positive, the average five-day CARs of event firms with positive market reactions to 

credit rating actions are 4.42% and 3.84%, respectively. Both of those are statistically 

significant at the 1% level. When the peers’ reactions are negative (positive), the 

average five-day CARs for the suppliers and customers show significant average excess 

returns of 2.20% (1.74%) and 0.90% (0.52%), respectively. Overall, these findings 

show that the credit rating actions of one firm have spillover effects on both suppliers 

and customers regardless of the reactions of event firm’s industry peers. In fact, 

unreported results (omitted for brevity) indicate that the average negative and positive 

reactions of event firm’s industry peers are not significant in Panels A and B. This 

suggests that credit events do not belong to industry problems. 

It’s worth noting that, based on the magnitude of the reactions, the spillover effects 

to suppliers appear to be greater than those to customers. One possible explanation is 

that customers largely have stronger bargaining power and thus are less responsive to 

shocks from suppliers’ credit events. Another possibility is that compared to suppliers, 

customers may have superior understanding and access to recent information about 

suppliers’ credit changes and make more accurate predictions about upcoming changes 

in demand (Lee et al. 1997). 

Further, we conduct regressions using event firm’s peer market reaction (Peer 

Reaction) and its interaction with Market Reaction as additional control variables. In 

Panel A of Table 11, the coefficients on Market Reaction for both suppliers and 

customers are significantly positive. This result reconfirms that the spillover effects due 

to credit rating actions can spread not only upstream, but downstream as well. This 

finding bolsters our evidence on individual suppliers and customers and constitutes new 

31 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



evidence on the extent of spillover effects of credit rating events. Our finding 

complements that of Alldredge et al. (2019) who find that supplier firms experience 

negative abnormal returns during the announcement of customer firms’ rating 

downgrades. 

On the other hand, in terms of the magnitude of the coefficients, the spillover 

effects to suppliers seem to be higher than those to customers, which is consistent with 

the results in Table 10. It should be noted that the coefficients on Peer Reaction and 

Peer Reaction × Market Reaction are positive, but not significant. This again confirms 

that the market reactions of event firm’s peers have no impact on the spillover effects 

we documented. Therefore, credit events are largely a matter for individual firms rather 

than industries. 

5.2. Effects of investment grade change 

Prior studies find that the impact of rating changes is most significant for those 

downgrades from investment grades to speculative grades (Goh and Ederington 1999; 

Creighton et al. 2007; Kisgen 2009; May 2010). Our documented spillover effects may 

have been more pronounced when the rating change for event firms is across those two 

grades and, therefore, may be driving our baseline findings. Thinking about this issue 

prompts us to wonder if stronger spillovers should be observed when the rating change 

is across two grades. 

To this end, we create a dummy variable Across that is equal to one if the rating 

change is across two grades and zero otherwise. Then we interact this dummy variable 

with Market Reaction. Additionally, we replace credit rating Credit Rating (an ordered 

categorical variable) with IG, which is an indicator of one if the rating is investment 

grade and zero otherwise. This helps separate the firm characteristics into two distinct 

groups. 

32 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



We incorporate these variables into our base model, and report the regression 

results in Panel B of Table 11. For suppliers, the coefficient on Across × Market 

Reaction is significantly positive. Our evidence is in line with the existing literature that 

financial markets react more strongly to downgrade and upgrade announcements for 

firms with rating change across two grades (speculative grade ratings and investment 

grade ratings) (Li et al. 2006; Kisgen 2009; May 2010). For customers, the coefficient 

is positive, but not significant. This suggests that the investment grade change is not a 

potentially important influencing factor in our documented spillovers to customers. 

5.3. Effects of global rating partners 

Our credit rating data are from several rating agencies and some of them have 

global partners such as S&P, Moody’s and Fitch. One may feel that those rating 

agencies with global famous partners maybe more independent even though they may 

not have active role in rating assignments but have reputation concerns especially for 

issuing rating on state-owned firms. Thus, we investigate whether stronger spillovers 

are observed when rating agencies have global partners.11 

To test our intuition above, we define a dummy variable Global, which takes a 

value of one if the rating agency has global partners and zero otherwise. Then we 

interact Global with Market Reaction. We extend our base model by including these 

variables, and report the regression results in Panel C of Table 11. For suppliers, the 

coefficient on Global × Market Reaction is significantly positive. This suggests that our 

documented spillover effects for suppliers are amplified when rating agencies have 

global partners. This finding is consistent with the idea that stock markets react more 

strongly to announcements of global ratings agencies than to those of local counterparts 

                                                     
11 Table D1 in Appendix D provides a brief overview of Chinese credit rating agencies. 

33 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



(Li et al. 2006). For customers, the coefficient is not significant, suggesting that global 

rating partners are not an important factor in the spillovers to customers. 

5.4. Effects of business relationships in the supply chain 

Spillover effects should be more dominant when the business relationship between 

an event firm and other members (i.e., suppliers and customers) in the supply chain is 

closer. In what follows we provide additional evidence on this condition. Following 

common practices in the literature, we measure the extent of a business relationship by 

Sales (i.e., the average sales to supplier firms or customer firms divided by the total 

sales of an event firm). Using this variable, we construct a dummy variable. It takes a 

value of one if the variable is above its cross-sectional median and zero otherwise, and 

is denoted as Closer. 

The result is shown in Panel C of Table 11. For suppliers, the coefficient on Market 

Reaction is positive and significant at the 1% level. We are particularly interested in 

the coefficient on the interaction term between Market Reaction and Closer, which is 

significantly positive. Meanwhile, for customers these coefficients are positive and 

significant at the 5% level. These findings suggest that the spillover effects to suppliers 

and customers are both stronger when the level of business relationship is higher. Our 

results complement the evidence in Houston et al. (2016) who find that the impact of a 

firm’s bankruptcy on suppliers is greater when there is a stronger supplier-customer 

relationship. 

6. Robustness test 

6.1. Impact of overlapping estimation and event periods 

A potential concern is the impact of estimation periods on the independence of the 

computed returns when we estimate the abnormal returns. Since we use the market-

34 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



model approach to estimate abnormal returns for the events and since the estimation 

periods (day −200 to day −20) of different events overlap in many cases, it is likely that 

the t-statistics in the analyses of the abnormal returns are biased upward. To see whether 

the overlapping estimation period affects our results in a significant way, we repeat all 

the analyses described above using the market-adjusted-return model (MA). As 

displayed in Panel A in Table 12, our main results are qualitatively similar to those 

reported above. In addition, we experiment with the constant-mean-return model (CM) 

for which the benchmark return is estimated by averaging the returns from day −244 to 

day −6, and find that our main conclusions remain intact. Therefore, our results do not 

seem to be affected by overlapping estimation periods. 

6.2. Different event windows 

So far we have focused on the event window from day 0 to day +4 to account for 

the potential effect of the daily price limits in the Chinese stock markets on market 

reactions. To check the robustness of our results, we use the same explanatory variables 

as those in Tables mentioned above, but change the definition of the event window from 

(0,4) to (0,2) and (0,6). In addition, we use the event windows such as (-1,1) and (-2,0) 

to consider the likelihood that stock markets can react to the credit change of event 

firms before the rating announcements (Norden and Weber 2004). As displayed in 

Panel B in Table 12, we obtain qualitatively identical results, suggesting that the event 

window of (0, 4) used in the previous analyses is robust enough to illustrate the spillover 

effects. 

7. Conclusions 

In this paper, we explore the spillover effects of supply chains in China. To 

examine the existence of spillover effects between suppliers and customers in the 

35 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



supply chain, we focus on the market reactions of event firms to announcements of 

credit rating actions such as rating changes, credit watches, and outlooks. We provide 

evidence of a positive association between the abnormal returns of event firms and the 

abnormal returns of supply chain partners (suppliers and customers) around the 

announcements of event firms’ credit rating actions. The spillover effects are 

substantially stronger for supply chain partners that receive more investor attention. 

This points to information diffusion as an important channel driving shock propagation. 

Moreover, we find that negative spillovers caused by negative market reactions are 

more dominant than positive spillovers caused by positive market reactions. This 

finding supports the idea that public responses to negative news in general are much 

larger than those to positive news. 

Finally, we find that several supply chain and firm attributes affect the documented 

spillover effects. In particular, the spillover effects are stronger when event firms are 

non-state-owned. This is consistent with the fact that market participants are largely 

more concerned about the credit rating actions of private firms, because they are more 

dependent on private investments and banks loans for growth. We also find that both 

closer supplier-customer business relationship and higher industry concentration of 

event firms amplify the spillover effects. On the other hand, the spillover effects to 

suppliers rather than to customers are amplified when the rating change of even firms 

is across two grades (investment grades and speculative grades) or rating agencies have 

global partners. 

To summarize, we show an important channel—supply chains—for credit shock 

propagation in the stock market for both adverse and favorable credit shocks. Our 

findings suggest that credit rating actions convey new price-relevant information to 

stock investors across the supply chain and that investor attention improves information 

36 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



diffusion. Our results also provide insights into how the customer-supplier economic 

linkage plays a role in stock asset pricing during firm credit rating events. 

We caveat that our study is not without limitations. In this study, we conclude that 

supply chain partners experience spillover effects driven by the market reactions of 

event firms to credit rating actions. We only identify the information diffusion channel 

that drives our documented spillover effects. In the future, we can extend the research 

to investigate more thoroughly the underlying economic channels of spillover effects. 

In addition, with the accumulation of finer data, we can also examine more potential 

factors that determine the degree of spillover effects, such as loan or tax policy. We 

believe that our study focusing on the market reaction of event firms to explore the 

spillover effects along supply chain partners will provide a new perspective and 

approach to aid future pursuits along these lines by researchers. 

  

37 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



References 

Agarwal, A., Leung, A.C.M., Konana, P., Kumar, A., 2017. Cosearch attention 
and stock return predictability in supply chains. Information Systems Research 28, 
265–288. 

Agca, S., Babich, V., Birge, J.R., Wu, J., 2022. Credit shock propagation along 
supply chains: Evidence from the CDS market. Management Science 68, 6506–6538. 

Alldredge, D., Chen, Y., Liu, S., Luo, V.L., 2019. The effect of credit rating 
downgrades and customer-supplier relationships. Available at SSRN 3452275. 

Allen, F., Qian, J., Qian, M., 2005. Law, finance, and economic growth in China. 
Journal of Financial Economics 77, 57–116. 

Bae, G.S., Cheon, Y.S., Kang, J.K., 2008. Intragroup propping: Evidence from the 
stock-price effects of earnings announcements by Korean business groups. Review of 
Financial Studies 21, 2015–2060. 

Barber B.M., Odean T., 2008. All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on 
the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors. Review of Financial 
Studies 21, 785-818. 

Barberis, N., Shleifer, A., Wurgler, J., 2005. Comovement. Journal of Financial 
Economics 75, 283–317. 

Brown, S.J., Warner, J.B., 1985. Using daily stock returns: The case of event 
studies. Journal of Financial Economics 14, 3–31.  

Caliendo, M., Lee, W.S., Mahlstedt, R., 2017. The gender wage gap and the role 
of reservation wages: New evidence for unemployed workers. Journal of Economic 
Behavior & Organization 136, 161–173. 

Campello, M., Gao, J., 2017. Customer concentration and loan contract terms. 
Journal of Financial Economics 123, 108–136. 

Cantor, R., Mann, C., 2007. Analyzing the tradeoff between ratings accuracy and 
stability. Journal of Fixed Income 16, 60–68. 

Cen, L., Dasgupta, S., Elkamhi, R., Pungaliya, R.S., 2016. Reputation and loan 
contract terms: The role of principal customers. Review of Finance 20, 501–533. 

Cen, L., Maydew, E.L., Zhang, L., Zuo, L., 2017. Customer-supplier relationships 
and corporate tax avoidance. Journal of Financial Economics 123, 377–394. 

Chakrabarty, B., Moulton, P.C., 2012. Earnings announcements and attention 
constraints: The role of market design. Journal of Accounting and Economics 53, 612–
634. 

Chang, J.H., Hung, M.W., Tsai, F.T., 2015. Credit contagion and competitive 
effects of bond rating downgrades along the supply chain. Finance Research Letters 15, 
232–238. 

Chen, Y., Fan, Q., Yang, X., Zolotoy, L., 2021. CEO early-life disaster experience 
and stock price crash risk. Journal of Corporate Finance 68, 101928. 

Chung, K.H., Ann Frost, C., Kim, M., 2012. Characteristics and information value 
of credit watches. Financial Management 41, 119–158. 

Cohen, L., Frazzini, A., 2008. Economic links and predictable returns. Journal of 
Finance 63, 1977–2011. 

Cong, L.W., Gao, H., Ponticelli, J., Yang, X., 2019. Credit allocation under 

38 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



economic stimulus: Evidence from China. Review of Financial Studies 32, 3412–3460. 

Corwin, S.A., Coughenour, J.F., 2008. Limited attention and the allocation of 
effort in securities trading. Journal of Finance 63, 3031–3067. 

Creighton, A., Gower, L., Richards, A.J., 2007. The impact of rating changes in 
Australian financial markets. Pacific-Basin Finance Journal 15, 1–17. 

Cull, R., Xu, L.C., 2005. Institutions, ownership, and finance: The determinants 
of profit reinvestment among Chinese firms. Journal of Financial Economics 77, 117–
146. 

Cunat, V., 2007. Trade credit: Suppliers as debt collectors and insurance providers. 
Review of Financial Studies 20, 491–527. 

Dichev, I.D., Piotroski, J.D., 2001. The long-run stock returns following bond 
ratings changes. Journal of Finance 56, 173–203. 

Dorn, D., Huberman, G., 2010. Preferred risk habitat of individual investors. 
Journal of Financial Economics 97, 155–173. 

Ellis, J.A., Fee, C.E., Thomas, S.E., 2012. Proprietary costs and the disclosure of 
information about customers. Journal of Accounting Research 50, 685–727. 

Fee, C., Thomas, S., 2004. Sources of gains in horizontal mergers: Evidence from 
customer, supplier, and rival firms. Journal of Financial Economics 74, 423–460. 

Ferreira, M.A., Gama, P.M., 2007. Does sovereign debt ratings news spill over to 
international stock markets? Journal of Banking & Finance 31, 3162–3182. 

Gande, A., Parsley, D.C., 2005. News spillovers in the sovereign debt market. 
Journal of Financial Economics 75, 691–734. 

Goh, J.C., Ederington, L.H., 1999. Cross-sectional variation in the stock market 
reaction to bond rating changes. Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance 39, 101–
112. 

Gosman, M., Kelly, T., Olsson, P., Warfield, T., 2004. The profitability and 
pricing of major customers. Review of Accounting Studies 9, 117–139. 

Hasan, M.M., Taylor, G., Richardson, G., 2022. Brand capital and stock price 
crash risk. Management Science 68, 7065–7791. 

Hendricks, K.B., Jacobs, B.W., Singhal, V.R., 2020. Stock market reaction to 
supply chain disruptions from the 2011 great east Japan earthquake. Manufacturing & 
Service Operations Management 22, 683–699. 

Hertzel, M.G., Li, Z., Officer, M.S., Rodgers, K.J., 2008. Inter-firm linkages and 
the wealth effects of financial distress along the supply chain. Journal of Financial 
Economics 87, 374–387. 

Hirshleifer, D., Lim, S.S., Teoh, S.H., 2009. Driven to distraction: Extraneous 
events and underreaction to earnings news. Journal of Finance 64, 2289–2325. 

Hirshleifer, D., Teoh, S.H., 2003. Limited attention, information disclosure, and 
financial reporting. Journal of Accounting and Economics 36, 337–386. 

Holthausen, R.W., Leftwich, R.W., 1986. The effect of bond rating changes on 
common stock prices. Journal of Financial Economics 17, 57–89. 

Hong, H., Torous, W., Valkanov, R., 2007. Do industries lead stock markets? 
Journal of Financial Economics 83, 367–396. 

Hou, K., Xiong, W., Peng, L., 2009. A tale of two anomalies: The implications of 
investor attention for price and earnings momentum. Available at SSRN 976394. 

Houston, J.F., Lin, C., Zhu, Z., 2016. The financial implications of supply chain 

39 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



changes. Management Science 62, 2520–2542. 

Jacobson, T., von Schedvin, E., 2015. Trade credit and the propagation of 
corporate failure: An empirical analysis. Econometrica 83, 1315–1371. 

Jiang, X., Packer, F., 2019. Credit ratings of Chinese firms by domestic and global 
agencies: Assessing the determinants and impact. Journal of Banking & Finance 105, 
178–193. 

Joe, D.Y., Oh, F.D., 2018. Spillover effects within business groups: The case of 
Korean chaebols. Management Science 64, 1396–1412. 

Jorion, P., Liu, Z., Shi, C., 2005. Informational effects of regulation FD: Evidence 
from rating agencies. Journal of Financial Economics 76, 309–330. 

Jorion, P., Zhang, G., 2007. Good and bad credit contagion: Evidence from credit 
default swaps. Journal of Financial Economics 84, 860–883. 

Jorion, P., Zhang, G., 2010. Information transfer effects of bond rating 
downgrades. Financial Review 45, 683–706. 

Kisgen, D.J., 2009. Do firms target credit ratings or leverage levels? Journal of 
Financial and Quantitative Analysis 44, 1323–1344. 

Kolay, M., Lemmon, M., Tashjian, E., 2016. Spreading the misery? Sources of 
bankruptcy spillover in the supply chain. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 
51, 1955–1990. 

Kumar, A., Page, J.K., Spalt, O.G., 2013. Investor sentiment and return 
comovements: Evidence from stock splits and headquarters changes. Review of 
Finance 17, 921–953. 

Lang, L.H., Stulz, R., 1992. Contagion and competitive intra-industry effects of 
bankruptcy announcements: An empirical analysis. Journal of Financial Economics 32, 
45–60. 

Lee, H.L., Padmanabhan, V., Whang, S., 1997. Information distortion in a supply 
chain: The bullwhip effect. Management Science 43, 546–558. 

Leung, A.C.M., Agarwal, A., Konana, P., Kumar, A., 2017. Network analysis of 
search dynamics: The case of stock habitats. Management Science 63, 2667–2687. 

Lewbel, A., 2012. Using heteroscedasticity to identify and estimate mismeasured 
and endogenous regressor models. Journal of Business & Economic Statistics 30, 67–
80. 

Li, J., Shin, Y.S., Moore, W.T., 2006. Reactions of Japanese markets to changes 
in credit ratings by global and local agencies. Journal of Banking & Finance 30, 1007–
1021. 

Lu, Z., Zhu, J., Zhang, W., 2012. Bank discrimination, holding bank ownership, 
and economic consequences: Evidence from China. Journal of Banking & Finance 36, 
341–354. 

May, A.D., 2010. The impact of bond rating changes on corporate bond prices: 
New evidence from the over-the-counter market. Journal of Banking & Finance 34, 
2822–2836. 

Menzly, L., Ozbas, O., 2010. Market segmentation and cross-predictability of 
returns. Journal of Finance 65, 1555–1580. 

Norden, L., Weber, M., 2004. Informational efficiency of credit default swap and 
stock markets: The impact of credit rating announcements. Journal of Banking & 
Finance 28, 2813–2843. 

40 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Peng, L., Xiong, W., 2006. Investor attention, overconfidence and category 
learning. Journal of Financial Economics 80, 563–602. 

Pirinsky, C., Wang, Q., 2006. Does corporate headquarters location matter for 
stock returns? Journal of Finance 61, 1991–2015. 

Porter, M.E., 1979. How competitive forces shape strategy. Harvard Business 
Review 57, 78–93. 

Shleifer, A., Vishny, R.W., 1994. Politicians and firms. Quarterly Journal of 
Economics 109, 995–1025. 

Slovin, M.B., Sushka, M.E., Polonchek, J.A., 1999. An analysis of contagion and 
competitive effects at commercial banks. Journal of Financial Economics 54, 197–225. 

Smith, C.W., 1986. Investment banking and the capital acquisition process. 
Journal of Financial Economics 15, 3–29. 

Soroka, S.N., 2006. Good news and bad news: Asymmetric responses to economic 
information. Journal of Politics 68, 372–385. 

Tversky, K.A., 1979. Prospect theory: An analysis of decision under risk. 
Econometrica 47, 263–291. 

Vijh, A.M., 1994. S&P 500 trading strategies and stock betas. Review of Financial 
Studies 7, 215–251. 

Weinstein, M.I., 1977. The effect of a rating change announcement on bond price. 
Journal of Financial Economics 5, 329–350. 

Wu, J., Birge, J.R., 2014. Supply chain network structure and firm returns. 
Available at SSRN 2385217. 

Yang, J., Zhang, R., 2019. Network centrality of customers and suppliers. 
Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper. 

  

41 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Table 1: Sample description 

No. of No. with customer No. of supplier No. of customer No. of event- No. of 
Year 

events or supplier match portfolio portfolio customer or supplier industry 

2007 13 9 8 (1.1) 6 (1.2) 24 3 

2008 33 21 17 (1.1) 8 (1.1) 39 6 

2009 48 28 22 (1.1) 11 (1.0) 66 7 

2010 65 40 33 (1.1) 16 (1.0) 80 7 

2011 61 35 26 (1.0) 18 (1.2) 80 8 

2012 90 52 43 (1.1) 17 (1.1) 98 9 

2013 117 60 53 (1.1) 18 (1.1) 124 12 

2014 137 72 58 (1.1) 28 (1.1) 130 9 

2015 182 93 75 (1.1) 33 (1.1) 185 14 

2016 213 103 83 (1.1) 36 (1.1) 188 13 

2017 186 75 62 (1.2) 25 (1.3) 134 12 

2018 162 59 51 (1.3) 19 (1.2) 111 16 

2019 167 75 55 (1.3) 28 (1.5) 139 17 

2020 122 47 38 (1.1) 13 (1.2) 79 17 

Total 1,596 769 624 (1.1) 276 (1.2) 1,477 150 

Notes: This table describes the distribution of credit rating change events by year from March 2007 
to May 2020. It reports separately the number of all events, the number of events of firms that have 
at least one supplier or customer around the event day, the number of events of firms with supplier 
portfolio, the number of events of firms with customer portfolio, the number of event-supplier or -
customer observations, and the number of industry coverage in terms of WIND secondary industry 
classification standard. The numbers in parentheses are average number of suppliers or customers 
in the portfolio. 
  

42 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Table 2: Summary statistics of event firms’ characteristics 

 Full sample  State-owned  Non-state-owned  

Variables Mean (median)  Mean (median)  Mean (median) t-test 

Total Asset 135.1 (15.5)  156.6 (21.1)  108.7 (11.5) 0.382 

Size 19.4 (7.9)  22.6 (9.6)  15.7 (6.0) 0.918 

ROA 0.014 (0.009)  0.012 (0.010)  0.016 (0.007) -0.130 

Leverage 0.632 (0.620)  0.641 (0.636)  0.620 (0.594) 1.141 

B/M 0.808 (0.851)  0.841 (0.869)  0.768 (0.812) 3.655*** 

Cash 0.085 (0.064)  0.089 (0.074)  0.081 (0.053) 0.879 

Notes: This table shows the summary statistics of event firms in our sample. Total Asset is the book 
value of total assets (billion ¥). Size, ROA, Leverage, B/M, and Cash are calculated by the market 
value of equity, the ratio of net income to total assets, the ratio of total debt to total assets, the ratio 
of the book value of equity to the market value of equity, and the ratio of cash to total assets, 
respectively. *** indicates significance at the 1% level. 
  

43 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Table 3: Spillover effects along supply chains 
 

 Event firms Nonevent firms 
 

Event windows N CAR t-stat N CAR t-stat 

Panel A: Negative reactions of event firms (negative spillovers) 
 

Two-day CAR(0,1) 396 -4.02 -6.95*** 396 -1.64 -4.32*** 
 

Five-day CAR(0,4) 398 -4.55 -7.41*** 398 -1.58 -3.51*** 

Panel B: Positive reactions of event firms (positive spillovers) 
 

Two-day CAR(0,1) 373 3.10 14.87*** 373 1.25 3.38*** 
 

Five-day CAR(0,4) 371 3.75 14.53*** 371 1.64 4.12*** 

Notes: This table presents the spillover effects that are driven by the market reactions of event firms. 
The average two-day and five-day CARs are reported for the event firms and other firms in supply 
chains. We classify our event samples into two subsamples according to the sign of the CARs of 
event firms. The subsample in Panel A includes event firms with negative CARs (negative 
spillovers), and the subsample in Panel B includes event firms with positive CARs (positive 
spillovers). *** indicates significance at the 1% level. 

44 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Table 4: The role of market reactions in spillovers 

Panel A: Full sample 

 (1) (2) (3) 

Market Reaction 0.224*** 0.228*** 0.197*** 
 [0.035] [0.036] [0.039] 
Size  0.002 0.005 
  [0.003] [0.004] 
ROA  -0.025 -0.029 
  [0.044] [0.050] 
Leverage  0.024 0.022 
  [0.016] [0.019] 
B/M  0.027** 0.031* 
  [0.014] [0.016] 
Cash  0.008 0.006 
  [0.033] [0.040] 
Credit Rating  0.001 0.001 
  [0.001] [0.001] 
Constant -0.001 -0.069 -0.121* 
 [0.003] [0.044] [0.070] 
Year fixed effects No No Yes 
Industry fixed effects No No Yes 
Adjusted R2 0.087 0.107 0.167 
F-value 41.400 7.067 5.851 
Observations 769 758 758 

Panel B: Different rating actions 

Sample Rating changes Watch only Outlook only 

Market Reaction 0.166*** 0.543*** 0.876*** 
 [0.043] [0.162] [0.184] 
Control variables Yes Yes Yes 
Year fixed effects Yes Yes Yes 
Industry fixed effects Yes Yes Yes 
Adjusted R2 0.214 0.362 0.352 
F-value 1.695 3.877 5.411 
Observations 455 148 155 
Notes: This table presents the estimates of OLS regressions for the whole sample and different credit 
rating actions’ subsamples in Panels A and B, respectively. The dependent variable is the five-day 
CAR for nonevent firms in supply chains. The explanatory variable of interest is Market Reaction 
(i.e., the event firm’s five-day CAR). Control variables with regard to an event firm include Size 
(i.e., the market value of equity), ROA (i.e., the ratio of net income to total assets), Leverage (i.e., 
the ratio of total debt to total assets), B/M (i.e., the ratio of the book value of equity to the market 
value of equity), Cash (i.e., the ratio of cash to total assets), and Credit Rating (i.e., the credit rating 
level). The standard errors reported in parentheses are robust and clustered at the event-firm level. 
*, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. 
  

45 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Table 5: Sample-selection bias 

Panel A: First-stage estimation to get inverse Mills ratio  

 Disclosure 

Otherratio 7.712*** 
 [0.159] 
ROA 0.242** 
 [0.098] 
Growth 0.160 
 [0.190] 
Leverage -0.256*** 
 [-0.101] 
Size 0.032** 
 [0.013] 
Firmage 0.053** 
 [0.022] 
Constant 1.471*** 
 [0.555] 
Year fixed effects Yes 
Industry fixed effects Yes 
Max-rescaled R2 0.350 
Observations 23017 

Panel B: Regression controlling for selection bias  

 Nonevent firms’ CAR(0,4) 

Market Reaction 0.183** 
 [0.094] 
Constant 1.408 
 [0.922] 
Control variables Yes 
Inverse Mills ratio Yes 
Year fixed effects Yes 
Industry fixed effects Yes 
Adjusted R2 0.173 
Observations 754 
Notes: This table reports the test results for potential selection bias using Heckman two-stage 
method. In Panel A, we obtain the inverse Mills ratio from the first-stage probit model of whether 
a firm discloses customer and supplier information. Disclosure is a dummy variable with a value of 
one if a firm discloses customer/supplier information, and zero otherwise. Otherratio is the fraction 
of industry peers that disclose their customer/supplier information. ROA, Growth, Leverage, Size, 
Firmage, Market Reaction are respectively the ratio of net income to total assets, the growth rate, 
the ratio of total debt to total assets, the market value of equity, the firm age, and the five-day CAR. 
In Panel B, we add the estimated inverse Mills ratio to control for self-selection bias. The 
explanatory variable of interest is Market Reaction (i.e., the event firm’s five-day CAR). Control 
variables with regard to an event firm include Size (i.e., the market value of equity), ROA (i.e., the 
ratio of net income to total assets), Leverage (i.e., the ratio of total debt to total assets), B/M (i.e., 
the ratio of the book value of equity to the market value of equity), Cash (i.e., the ratio of cash to 
total assets), and Credit Rating (i.e., the credit rating level). Robust standard errors clustered at the 
event-firm level are in parentheses. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% 
levels, respectively. 
  

46 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Table 6: IV regression using heteroskedasticity-based instruments 

 First stage  Second stage 

 Market Reaction  Nonevent firms’ CAR(0,4) 

Market Reaction   0.690*** 
   [0.263] 
Size -0.003  0.001 
 [0.003]  [0.003] 
ROA 0.019  0.008 
 [0.049]  [0.037] 
Leverage -0.022  0.030 
 [0.020]  [0.026] 
B/M 0.023  0.023** 
 [0.016]  [0.012] 
Cash 0.034  0.008 
 [0.039]  [0.037] 
Credit Rating -0.001  0.001 
 [0.013]  [0.002] 
IVSize -0.231***   
 [0.073]   
IVROA 3.214**   
 [1.256]   
IVLeverage -0.345   
 [0.362]   
IVB/M -1.409***   
 [0.223]   
IVCash -5.376***   
 [0.786]   
IVCredit Rating 0.006   
 [0.022]   
Constant 0.052  -0.034 
 [0.050]  [0.064] 
Year fixed effects Yes  Yes 
Industry fixed effects Yes  Yes 
Observations 758  758 
Shea’s partial R2 0.462   
F-test of excluded instruments 5.378   
p-value 0.01   
Kleibergen-Paap rank LM-statistic 13.249   
p-value 0.03   
Kleibergen-Paap F-statistic 17.3   
p-value 0.01   
Hansen J statistic 8.88   
p value 0.11   
Notes: This table reports the result of two-stage least squares (2SLS) instrumental variable 
regressions. We follow Lewbel (2012) in generating heteroskedasticity-based instruments, which 

uses X  X   as instruments, where X is each of the exogenous variables in our main model. 

The explanatory variable of interest is Market Reaction. Control variables with regard to an event 
firm include Size (i.e., the market value of equity), ROA (i.e., the ratio of net income to total assets), 
Leverage (i.e., the ratio of total debt to total assets), B/M (i.e., the ratio of the book value of equity 

47 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



to the market value of equity), Cash (i.e., the ratio of cash to total assets), and Credit Rating (i.e., 
the credit rating level). Robust standard errors clustered at the event-firm level are in parentheses. 
*, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. 
  

48 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



 

Table 7: Placebo tests 

Panel A: Random market reaction within year 

 Mean t-stat p-value 

Pseudo Market Reaction 0.001 1.040 0.297 

Pseudo Market Reaction with controls 0.001 0.980 0.328 

Panel B: Random market reaction within industry 

 Mean t-stat p-value 

Pseudo Market Reaction -0.000 -0.410 0.682 

Pseudo Market Reaction with controls -0.001 -0.540 0.592 

Panel C: Random market reaction of other firms within a given supplier/customer-industry 

 Mean t-stat p-value 

Pseudo Market Reactionother 0.001 0.390 0.694 

Pseudo Market Reactionother with controls 0.000 0.142 0.886 

Notes: This table reports the results from placebo tests. In Panels A and B, Pseudo Market Reaction 
is generated by randomizing the market reactions of event firms within a given year and industry, 
respectively. In Panel C, Pseudo Market Reactionother is generated by implementing a 
randomization procedure within a given supplier/customer industry, in which on each event day 
we randomly select one other firm in the same industry as supplier/customer and calculate its 
market reaction. The average value of coefficient estimates on the Pseudo Market Reaction (in 
Panels A and B) or Market Reaction (in Panel C) from 1000 trials, together with t-statistics and p-
values from the t-test for the mean are presented. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 
5%, and 1% levels, respectively. 

  

49 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Table 8: The information diffusion channel 

Panel A: Analyst 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
Market Reaction 0.194*** 0.194*** 0.176*** 0.186*** 
 [0.041] [0.040] [0.039] [0.042] 
Supplier Analyst -0.010   -0.009 
 [0.012]   [0.006] 
Market Reaction × Supplier Analyst 0.087   0.007 
 [0.120]   [0.125] 
Customer Analyst  0.010  0.013 
  [0.009]  [0.009] 
Market Reaction × Customer Analyst  0.004  -0.004 
  [0.010]  [0.010] 
Common Analyst   -0.001 -0.001 
   [0.008] [0.009] 
Market Reaction × Common Analyst   0.461*** 0.445*** 
   [0.160] [0.169] 
Constant -0.149** -0.095 -0.136* -0.134* 
 [0.071] [0.071] [0.071] [0.073] 
Control variables Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year fixed effects Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Industry fixed effects Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Adjusted R2 0.274 0.280 0.328 0.365 
Observations 758 758 758 758 
Panel B: Media 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
Market Reaction 0.316*** 0.309*** 0.280*** 0.284*** 
 [0.060] [0.064] [0.061] [0.065] 
Supplier Media 0.002   0.001 
 [0.005]   [0.006] 
Market Reaction × Supplier Media -0.044   -0.107 
 [0.140]   [0.143] 
Customer Media  0.003  0.004 
  [0.009]  [0.009] 
Market Reaction × Customer Media  0.015  -0.051 
  [0.152]  [0.154] 
Common Media   0.001 0.001 
   [0.002] [0.002] 
Market Reaction × Common Media   0.106*** 0.124** 
   [0.005] [0.059] 
Constant 0.197** 0.194** 0.176* 0.185* 
 [0.097] [0.098] [0.097] [0.100] 
Control variables Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year fixed effects Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Industry fixed effects Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Adjusted R2 0.293 0.298 0.324 0.358 
Observations 758 758 758 758 
Notes: This table reports the estimates of OLS regressions for the effect of investor attention on the 
spillover effects that are driven by the market reactions of event firms. The dependent variable is 
the CAR(0,4) for nonevent firms in supply chains. Market Reaction is the CAR(0,4) for event firms. 
Supplier △, Customer △ and Common △ are three dummy variables (△=Analyst/Media) with a 
value of 1 if a target channel proxy variable is higher than median value, and 0 otherwise. Control 
variables with regard to an event firm include Size (i.e., the market value of equity), ROA (i.e., the 
ratio of net income to total assets), Leverage (i.e., the ratio of total debt to total assets), B/M (i.e., 
the ratio of the book value of equity to the market value of equity), Cash (i.e., the ratio of cash to 
total assets), and Credit Rating (i.e., the credit rating level). Robust standard errors clustered at the 

50 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



event-firm level are in parentheses. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% 
levels, respectively. 
  

51 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Table 9: Cross-sectional tests 

(1) (2) (3) 
 

Asymmetric spillovers State ownership Industry concentration 

Market Reaction : a 0.405*** 0.222*** 0.408*** 
 [0.121] [0.053] [0.094] 
b -0.013** -0.006 0.001 
 [0.006] [0.007] [0.006] 
a × b -0.306** -0.125* 0.242** 
 [0.133] [0.064] [0.101] 
Control variables Yes Yes Yes 
Year fixed effects Yes Yes Yes 
Industry fixed effects Yes Yes Yes 
Adjusted R2

 0.258 0.249 0.154 
Observations 758 758 758 
Notes: This table reports the estimates of OLS regressions for cross-sectional tests. The dependent 
variable is the CAR(0,4) for nonevent firms in supply chains. a × b is the explanatory variable of 
interest, defined as the interaction between Market Reaction (a) and cross-sectional variable (b), 
where b represents the following dummy variables: Positive Reaction, State-owned, or High 
Concentration. Positive Reaction is a dummy variable with a value of one if the market reaction of 
an event firm is positive and zero otherwise. State-owned is an indicator variable with a value of 
one if the event firm is state-owned and zero otherwise. High Concentration takes a value of one if 
the Herfindahl ratio is above its cross-sectional median for the same year and zero otherwise. Market 
Reaction is the CAR(0,4) for event firms. Control variables with regard to an event firm include 
Size (i.e., the market value of equity), ROA (i.e., the ratio of net income to total assets), Leverage 
(i.e., the ratio of total debt to total assets), B/M (i.e., the ratio of the book value of equity to the 
market value of equity), Cash (i.e., the ratio of cash to total assets), and Credit Rating (i.e., the credit 
rating level). Robust standard errors clustered at the event-firm level are in parentheses. *, **, and 
*** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. 
  

52 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Table 10: Spillover effects along supply chains: supplier vs. customer 

 Event firms  Suppliers  Customers 

Peers’ 
N CAR t-stat  N CAR t-stat  N CAR t-stat 

reactions 

Panel A: Negative reactions of event firms (negative spillovers) 

Negative 224 -5.39 -9.72***  224 -3.07 -2.01**  224 -1.04 -1.98** 

Positive 174 -1.31 -2.79***  174 -3.08 -2.93***  174 -1.66 -2.23*** 

Panel B: Positive reactions of event firms (positive spillovers) 

Negative 192 4.42 2.44***  192 2.20 2.86***  192 0.90 2.42*** 

Positive 179 3.84 8.69***  179 1.74 2.47***  179 0.52 2.18** 

Notes: This table presents the spillovers to suppliers and customers. The average five-day CARs are 
reported for the event firms, suppliers and customers in supply chains when event firm’s peers react 
negatively or positively in their stock markets. We classify our event samples into two subsamples 
according to the sign of the CARs of event firms. We then further divide the subsamples according 
to the sign of the CARs of event firm’s industry peers. The subsample in Panel A includes event 
firms with negative CARs (negative spillovers), and the subsample in Panel B includes event firms 
with positive CARs (positive spillovers). *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 
1% levels, respectively. 
  

53 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Table 11: Further analysis: the regression results of spillover effects in the supply chain 

Panel A: The impact of event firms’ peer market reactions 

 Supplier CAR(0,4) Customer CAR(0,4) 

Market Reaction 0.304*** 0.270** 
 [0.075] [0.132] 
Peer Reaction 0.101 0.068 
 [0.162] [0.084] 
Peer Reaction × Market Reaction 0.109 0.132 
 [0.146] [0.338] 
Control variables Yes Yes 
Year fixed effects Yes Yes 
Industry fixed effects Yes Yes 
Adjusted R2 0.283 0.343 
Observations 620 271 

Panel B: The impact of investment grade change 

 Supplier CAR(0,4) Customer CAR(0,4) 

Market Reaction 0.388*** 0.305* 
 [0.067] [0.166] 
Across -0.023 0.011 
 [0.024] [0.019] 
Across × Market Reaction 1.104** 0.246 
 [0.460] [0.256] 
Control variables Yes Yes 
Year fixed effects Yes Yes 
Industry fixed effects Yes Yes 
Adjusted R2 0.209 0.317 
Observations 620 271 

Panel C: The impact of global rating partners 

 Supplier CAR(0,4) Customer CAR(0,4) 

Market Reaction 0.302*** 0.254** 
 [0.071] [0.145] 
Global 0.003 -0.007 
 [0.011] [0.012] 
Global × Market Reaction 0.465** 0.145 
 [0.187] [0.215] 
Control variables Yes Yes 
Year fixed effects Yes Yes 
Industry fixed effects Yes Yes 
Adjusted R2 0.209 0.305 
Observations 620 271 

Panel D: The impact of business relationships in the supply chain 

 Supplier CAR(0,4) Customer CAR(0,4) 

Market Reaction 0.147*** 0.135** 
 [0.046] [0.058] 
Closer -0.006 0.009 
 [0.009] [0.018] 
Closer × Market Reaction 0.582*** 0.373** 
 [0.114] [0.165] 

54 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Control variables Yes Yes 
Year fixed effects Yes Yes 
Industry fixed effects Yes Yes 
Adjusted R2 0.355 0.362 
Observations 620 271 
Notes: This table reports the estimates of OLS regressions for the further analysis of spillover 
effects. We consider the impact of event firm’s peer market reactions in panel A, investment grade 
change in Panel B, global rating partners in Panel C, and business relationships in Panel D. Market 
Reaction is the CAR(0,4) for event firms. Peer Reaction is the CAR(0,4) for event firm’s industry 
peers. Across, Global and Closer are three dummy variables: the first takes a value of one if the 
rating change is across two grades and zero otherwise; the second takes a value of one if the rating 
agency has global partners and zero otherwise; and the last takes a value of one if the event firm’s 
sales to suppliers or customers is above their sample median and zero otherwise. Control variables 
with regard to an event firm include Size (i.e., the market value of equity), ROA (i.e., the ratio of net 
income to total assets), Leverage (i.e., the ratio of total debt to total assets), B/M (i.e., the ratio of 
the book value of equity to the market value of equity), Cash (i.e., the ratio of cash to total assets), 
and Credit Rating (i.e., the credit rating level). The standard errors reported in parentheses are robust 
and clustered at the event-firm level. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% 
levels, respectively. 
  

55 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Table 12: Robustness tests on the role of market reactions in spillovers 

Panel A: Results based on different benchmark models   

 MA CM 

Market Reaction 0.088** 0.070** 

 [0.044] [0.032] 

Control variables Yes Yes 

Year fixed effects Yes Yes 

Industry fixed effects Yes Yes 

Adjusted R2 0.115 0.103 

Observations 758 758 

Panel B: Results based on different event windows   

 CAR(0,2) CAR(0,6) CAR(-1,1) CAR(-2,0) 

Market Reaction 0.179*** 0.210*** 0.314*** 0.574*** 

 [0.044] [0.040] [0.059] [0.071] 

Control variables Yes Yes Yes Yes 

Year fixed effects Yes Yes Yes Yes 

Industry fixed effects Yes Yes Yes Yes 

Adjusted R2 0.159 0.182 0.281 0.379 

Observations 758 758 758 758 

Notes: In Panel A, the OLS regressions are repeated using the CAR(0,4) from the market-adjusted-
return model (MA) and constant-mean-return model (CM). In Panel B, the OLS regressions are 
repeated using CAR(0,2), CAR(0,6), CAR(-1,1) and CAR(-2,0). The explanatory variable of 
interest is Market Reaction (i.e., the event firm’s five-day CAR). Control variables with regard to 
an event firm include Size (i.e., the market value of equity), ROA (i.e., the ratio of net income to 
total assets), Leverage (i.e., the ratio of total debt to total assets), B/M (i.e., the ratio of the book 
value of equity to the market value of equity), Cash (i.e., the ratio of cash to total assets), and Credit 
Rating (i.e., the credit rating level). Robust standard errors clustered at the event-firm level are in 
parentheses. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. 
  

56 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Appendix A: Descriptive statistics and correlation coefficients 

Table A1: Descriptive statistics and correlation matrix 

Panel A: The descriptive statistics of the variables in the main analysis 
First Third Standard 

Variable Observations Mean Minimum Median Maximum 
quartile quartile deviation 

CAR(0, 4) 769 -0.003 -0.512 -0.020 0.001 0.022 0.194 0.060 
Market Reaction 769 -0.006 -0.518 -0.021 -0.001 0.020 0.145 0.076 
Size 769 19.429 0.313 3.885 7.925 17.349 137.718 74.554 
ROA 769 0.014 -0.926 -0.004 0.009 0.011 0.121 0.066 
Leverage 769 0.632 0.195 0.521 0.620 0.755 1.380 0.178 
B/M 769 0.808 0.236 0.681 0.851 0.952 1.316 0.199 
Cash 758 0.085 0.000 0.034 0.064 0.112 0.589 0.081 
Credit Rating 769 10.385 1.000 10.000 11.000 12.000 14.000 2.958 

Panel B: The Pearson correlation coefficients between all the variables in the main analysis 
Market Credit 

 CAR(0, 4) Size ROA Leverage B/M Cash 
Reaction Rating 

CAR(0, 4) 1        

Market Reaction 0.306*** 1       

Size -0.001 -0.021 1      

ROA -0.045 -0.034 0.034 1     

Leverage 0.088* -0.033 0.100** -0.159*** 1    

B/M 0.129** 0.052 0.057 0.062 0.104** 1   

Cash -0.004 0.063 -0.035 -0.121** -0.208*** -0.073   

Credit Rating -0.018 -0.069 0.301*** 0.187*** -0.241*** 0.139*** 0.102** 1 

Notes: This table reports the descriptive statistics and Pearson correlation coefficients of the 
variables used in the main analysis in Panel A and Panel B, respectively. CAR(0, 4) is the five-day 
cumulative abnormal returns for nonevent firms. The variables with regard to an event firm include 
Market Reaction (i.e., the five-day CAR), Size (i.e., the market value of equity), ROA (i.e., the ratio 
of net income to total assets), Leverage (i.e., the ratio of total debt to total assets), B/M (i.e., the ratio 
of the book value of equity to the market value of equity), Cash (i.e., the ratio of cash to total assets), 
and Credit Rating (i.e., the credit rating level). *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, 
and 1% levels, respectively. 
  

57 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Appendix B: The scale of the rating levels for the Chinese main rating agencies 

Table B1: Credit rating scale 

Rating Numeric value assigned 

AAA 14 

AAA- 13 

AA+ 12 

AA 11 

AA- 10 

A+ 9 

A 8 

A- 7 

BBB+ 6 

BBB 5 

BBB- 4 

BB+, BB, BB- 3 

B+, B, B- 2 

CCC, CC, C 1 

Notes: This table describes the categories that are used for credit ratings. It also presents the 
numerical scale used in the paper. 
  

58 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Appendix C: The market reactions of event firms, suppliers, customers, and peers to rating 
events 

Table C1: The market reactions of event firms, suppliers, customers and peers to credit rating 
events 

 Event firms  Suppliers  Customers  Peers 

 N CAR t-stat  N CAR t-stat  N CAR t-stat  N CAR t-stat 

Panel A: Rating downgrades 

CAR(0,1)                

Negative 77 -7.60 -2.72***  104 -5.00 -3.69***  43 -3.81 -3.56***  95 -0.40 -0.69 

Positive 96 3.38 5.83***  122 3.81 3.98***  62 4.69 3.78***  78 0.28 0.91 

CAR(0,4)                

Negative 71 -6.80 -3.88***  81 -5.19 -2.97***  50 -5.79 -3.19***  92 -0.48 -0.53 

Positive 102 3.69 5.10***  145 3.43 2.80***  55 4.96 2.95***  81 0.28 1.04 

CAR(-1,1)                

Negative 86 -4.78 -4.01***  110 -3.40 -3.19***  55 -4.13 -2.53***  90 -0.41 -0.59 

Positive 87 2.83 4.91***  116 2.93 2.88***  50 3.980 2.62***  83 0.21 0.86 

Panel B: Rating upgrades 

CAR(0,1)                

Negative 162 -3.21 -7.58***  168 -5.17 -3.71***  93 -3.51 -3.55***  144 -0.40 -0.80 

Positive 120 2.42 7.24***  226 3.06 6.50***  73 2.27 4.44***  138 0.24 1.26 

CAR(0,4)                

Negative 153 -4.23 -5.71***  150 -7.20 -3.44***  86 -4.07 -4.03***  132 -0.60 -0.66 

Positive 129 2.91 6.63***  244 3.18 5.48***  80 2.53 3.91***  150 0.33 1.15 

CAR(-1,1)                

Negative 170 -6.80 -3.88***  181 -5.19 -2.97***  90 -5.79 -3.19***  143 -0.51 -0.69 

Positive 112 3.69 5.10***  213 3.43 2.80***  76 4.96 2.95***  139 0.30 1.09 

Notes: This table shows the market reactions of event firms, suppliers, customers and peers to rating 
downgrades and upgrades in Panel A and Panel B, respectively. *, **, and *** indicate significance 
at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. 
  

59 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016



Appendix D: A brief overview of Chinese credit rating agencies 

Table D1 provides the nine major domestic credit rating agencies (CARs). They include three 

independent agencies with full accreditation in both the interbank market and the exchange-based 

market: Dagong, Brilliance and Jincheng. Brilliance has a technical partnership with Standard & 

Poor’s that it formed in 2008 for the purpose of sharing knowledge and experience. The two 

domestic independent agencies of FarEast and Pengyuan have full accreditation in the exchange-

based market, and restricted accreditation in the interbank market. In addition, there are two 

domestically owned and capitalized multi-agency groups, Chengxin and Lianhe, which each 

effectively comprise two entities: a domestically-funded entity having accreditation in the 

exchange-based market, and a joint-venture entity with minority foreign participation limited to 

rating in the inter-bank market. Chengxin’s joint venture is with Moody’s and Lianhe’s with Fitch. 

Ratings from all the above domestic agencies are issuer-paid. 

The last five columns of Table D1 list the approvals from the five government regulatory 

bodies for each CAR.12 The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is the sole regulator of the 

CRAs in the US, but multiple Chinese government regulators have their own approved CRAs. Two 

CARs (Brilliance and Dagong) have approvals from all five regulators. On the other hand, 

ChengxinI has approvals from only two regulators. As pointed out in Jiang and Packer (2019), 

though the three main global agencies have either minority shareholder stakes in the joint venture 

entities or technical partnerships with domestic agencies as mentioned above, the global agencies’ 

themselves do not play an active role in those entities’ assignment of ratings during the period under 

investigation. 

 

Table D1: List of major Chinese credit rating agencies 

Global Regulatory approval 
Name Website Head-quarter 

partner PBoC CIRC CSRC NDRC NAFMII 

Brilliance S&P* www.shxsj.com Shanghai Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
ChengxinS Moody’s* www.ccxi.com.cn Beijing Yes No Yes Yes Yes 
Lianhe Fitch Fitch* www.lhratings.com Beijing Yes No Yes Yes Yes 
Dagong None www.dagongcredit.com Beijing Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
ChengxinI None www.ccxr.com.cn Shanghai Yes Yes No No No 
Jincheng None www.dfratings.com Beijing Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Lianhe None www.lianhecreditrating.com.cn Beijing Yes Yes Yes No No 
Pengyuan None www.pyrating.cn Shenzhen No Yes Yes No No 
FarEast None www.sfecr.com Shanghai Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 

Notes: This Table describes the nine major Chinese CRAs in this study. The last five column reports 
the regulatory recognition of each CRA by various regulatory bodies in China. 
NAFMII: National Association of Financial Markets Institutional Investors (regulator of the 
interbank market). 
CIRC: China Insurance Regulatory Commission (Chinese insurance industry regulator). 
 
 

                                                     
12 We obtain the regulatory approval information from the websites of the CRAs and cross-check 
with the approved CRAs lists from the regulatory agencies whenever available. 

60 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504016