Pacific-Basin Finance Journal 83 (2024) 102239

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 

Pacific-Basin Finance Journal 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/pacfin 

The effect of institutional cross-ownership on corporate risk-taking 
in a transitional economy 
Wenjing Yin a, Weiping Li b, Yumiao Yu a,* 

a Department of Accounting, School of Economics and Management, Wuhan University, China 
b International School of Business & Finance, Advanced Institute of Finance, Institute of Enterprise, Sun Yat-sen University, China   

A R T I C L E  I N F O   A B S T R A C T   

JEL codes: This study documents the unintended effect of institutional cross-ownership on corporate risk- 
G32 taking in a transitional economy. Theoretically, cross-owners can increase their influence in 
G34 corporate governance through voice and exit. However, such an insight may not align with the 
Keywords: reality of the Chinese market, where institutional activism is limited. We predict and document 
Institutional cross-ownership that the amplified exit threat of institutional cross-ownership increases its contribution to 
Threat of exit managerial myopia and reduces risk-taking activities. This effect is more pronounced for firms 
Stock market pressure 
Corporate risk-taking when the exit threat is more credible or when managers are more concerned about market per

formance. As expected, the association is driven primarily by active short-term investors, whose 
exit threat is much stronger. Our findings suggest that institutional cross-ownership may inad
vertently exacerbate agency problems because, in some cases, it may discourage managers from 
taking value-maximizing actions.   

1. Introduction 

Previous research suggests that cross-ownership can increase the influence of investors over investee firms. A significant body of 
research emphasizes the active participation of cross-owners in decision-making. For example, Kang et al. (2018) find that multiple 
blockholdings provide institutions with the necessary knowledge and experience to conduct effective monitoring. Similarly, He et al. 
(2019) highlight the role of institutional cross-owners in internalizing governance externalities by exercising voting rights. By contrast, 
Edmans et al. (2019) theorize that the alternative mechanism, the threat of exit, may also be reinforced under cross-ownership because 
being sold by cross-owners reveals the losers in the portfolio. In effect, the threat of exit is not generally accepted as a form of 
shareholder activism. According to Admati and Pfleiderer (2009), the impact of exit threats on corporate governance can vary greatly 
depending on the specific agency concerns of the firm. In the case of managerial shirking, the threat of exit may deter managers from 
maximizing firm value. Despite extensive research on the disciplinary effects of cross-ownership (Kang et al., 2018; He et al., 2019; 
Ramalingegowda et al., 2021), there are reasons to doubt that it aligns with managers’ and shareholders’ interests in all cases. 
Therefore, we investigate the effect of institutional cross-ownership on firm risk-taking in a transitional market. 

We focus our attention on the particular context of institutional cross-ownership in China. Jiang and Kim (2015) suggest that 
compared with their US counterparts, institutional investors in China may face challenges in monitoring firms, mainly owing to their 
relatively low shareholding and lack of long-term perspective. However, these investors can still influence the market by selling shares, 

* Corresponding author at: No. 299, Bayi Road, Wuchang District, Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China. 
E-mail addresses: wenjing4658@whu.edu.cn (W. Yin), liwp27@mail.sysu.edu.cn (W. Li), yymiao@whu.edu.cn (Y. Yu).  

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pacfin.2023.102239 
Received 12 February 2023; Received in revised form 6 November 2023; Accepted 20 December 2023   
Available online 29 December 2023
0927-538X/© 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.



W. Yin et al.                                                                                                                                                                 P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F i n a n c e  J o u r n a l 83 (2024) 102239

especially after the implementation of the split-share reform. Although it is difficult to be actively involved, institutional ownership is 
essential for a firm to improve its reputation among minority shareholders (Claessens and Fan, 2002). In China’s A-share markets, 
which are primarily influenced by individual investors, the lack of transparency can lead to a situation where other traders imitate 
institutional behavior, thereby exerting pressure on prices (Tan et al., 2008). In short, findings from previous literature on the US may 
not be applicable to China. 

In addition, a key differentiator of Chinese corporate governance is the weak legal system. Despite various protective measures 
enacted through legislation, China has been criticized for its poor legal environment. In the case of law enforcement, China received 
relatively lower scores than other countries. In the 2022 annual Rule of Law Index published by the World Justice Project, China 
ranked 95th out of 140 countries worldwide. When legal protections for investors are weak, managers may have greater latitude to act 
in their own interests. Therefore, special attention should be paid to corporate governance in transitional economies with weak legal 
enforcement. 

Collectively, we have articulated two divergent views of how institutional cross-ownership may affect corporate risk-taking. The 
“communication” view suggests that institutional cross-ownership induces firms to pursue riskier but more valuable investments. It has 
been suggested that diversified owners tend to be less concerned about firm-specific risks because these risks can be easily spread out 
(Faccio et al., 2011; DesJardine et al., 2023). Getting involved in riskier projects is crucial not only for the value of the focal firm 
(Wright et al., 1996; Faccio et al., 2011; Koirala et al., 2020), but also for cross-owners to gain greater marginal benefits from peer firms 
(He et al., 2019). Thus, we estimate that institutional cross-owners are incentivized to guide managers toward higher levels of risk- 
taking. Moreover, institutional cross-owners can reduce monitoring costs by exploiting informational advantages through econo
mies of scale (Ramalingegowda et al., 2021). Considering the potential benefits outweigh the costs of governance, it is expected that 
institutional cross-ownership will play an active monitoring role and engage firms in high-risk ventures. 

On the contrary, the “signal” view contends that institutional cross-ownership strengthens the threat of exit and inadvertently 
reduces the level of corporate risk-taking. Under cross-ownership, being sold sends a stronger signal to the market about a company’s 
poor performance. In the event of a liquidity shock, institutional cross-owners will sell the worst assets in their portfolios while 
retaining the good ones (Edmans et al., 2019). Since they have an information advantage over the public, other investors may mimic 
their trading decisions and exit the same securities (Bikhchandani et al., 1992; Xu et al., 2022). Given the potential negative conse
quences, managers may be unwilling to take any risk at first. Even if managers take productive actions, institutional investors will sell 
their shares if they observe that the increase in value does not meet their expectations (Admati and Pfleiderer, 2009). Then, a sale by an 
institutional cross-owner leads to a magnified decline in the share price and elicits ex-ante managerial reactions. When managers are 
party-contracted to market performance, they worry that their personal wealth and career success will be affected by the downward 
pressure (Dou et al., 2018; Döring et al., 2021). Therefore, managers tend to choose less risky actions in order to protect their own self- 
interest, as high-risk actions could potentially send negative signals to the market in the short-term. For the above reasons, institutional 
ownership may unintentionally reduce the degree of corporate risk-taking owing to the presence of exit threats. 

To address this debate, we seek to examine the relationship between institutional cross-ownership and corporate risk-taking using a 
sample of Chinese listed firms over the period 2007–2019. Consistent with the “signal” view, our empirical tests suggest that insti
tutional cross-ownership is negatively associated with corporate risk-taking. These findings withstand a series of robustness checks and 
continue to hold after addressing endogeneity concerns. We also conduct several additional analyses to strengthen our main point. We 
show that the effect of cross-ownership on corporate risk-taking is more pronounced when the exit threat is more credible or when 
managers are more concerned about market performance. The cross-sectional analysis is consistent with the view that capital market 
pressure serves as the channel through which institutional cross-ownership influences corporate governance. Furthermore, we find 
that the predictive power of institutional cross-ownership is attributable to active institutions that trade on short-term value. This is 
because active short-term institutional owners are more likely to exit when the valuation created in the short run is small. Finally, since 
previous studies have documented the positive sides of institutional cross-ownership, we expect that its threat of exit would produce 
positive and negative outcomes depending on agency problems. From a beneficial effect perspective, the results show that the pos
sibility and degree of financial statement irregularities would be lower in response to the disciplining effect of the exit threat. 

This study contributes to the literature in several ways. First, we add to the growing literature on the impact of institutional cross- 
ownership on corporate decision-making. A major strand of research has been devoted to explaining advances in corporate governance 
by highlighting the increased importance of cross-ownership in monitoring (e.g. Kang et al., 2018; Ramalingegowda et al., 2021). 
These studies argue that institutional cross-holders possess the ability to engage in efficient monitoring as a result of heightened 
capacity and incentives to participate. In contrast to these studies, we ask whether the effects of institutional cross-holders hold true for 
Chinese firms. Our results differ from those of previous studies, in that we find that the exit threat of institutional cross-ownership 
actually reduces managers’ motivation to take additional risks to counteract downward price pressure. According to Xu et al. 
(2022), Chinese institutions prioritize short-term interests and often lack the patience to trade based on the long-term fundamental 
value of firms. We confirm that the exit threat is largely the result of active short-term investors. 

Second, we shed light on the mechanism by which institutional investors profoundly influence corporate governance. Although 
cross-ownership has received extensive research attention, the significance of the institutional cross-ownership exit threat in corporate 
governance has been largely neglected. In particular, the theoretical model of Edmans et al. (2019) outlines that the threat of exit by 
cross-ownership will be reinforced as it signals to the market whether the assets are winners or losers in the portfolio. It has long been 
questioned whether institutions actively engage in management activities, especially in a transitional economy such as China (Jiang 
and Kim, 2020). According to McCahery et al. (2016), institutions ideally favor the use of the exit threat as an alternative mechanism in 
corporate governance. Based on our findings, it appears that institutional cross-ownership continues to rely primarily on the threat of 
exit as the main approach, rather than actively seeking engagement. 

2



W. Yin et al.                                                                                                                                                                 P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F i n a n c e  J o u r n a l 83 (2024) 102239

Third, this study contributes to existing knowledge about the factors that influence corporate risk-taking. Previous research has 
mainly examined how ownership structure influences the development of strategies for risky and uncertain projects (e.g. Boubaker 
et al., 2016). While institutional cross-ownership has been extensively studied in a variety of fields, the risk-taking behavior of 
managers has received less attention. We contend that within a Chinese setting, the existence of institutional cross-ownership has the 
potential to worsen conflicts of interest in corporate risk management, resulting in unfavorable consequences. Our study supports the 
theoretical analysis of Admati and Pfleiderer (2009), which suggests that the possibility of exit can discourage managers from taking 
value-maximizing actions and lead to dysfunctional investor behavior. 

2. Related literature and hypothesis development 

2.1. Determinants of corporate risk-taking 

Given the importance of firms’ risk-taking behavior, current research efforts are exploring aspects that may influence managers’ 
attitudes toward risk. Based on the principles of agency theory, it can be argued that managers exhibit risk-averse behavior owing to 
their dependence on a single source of wealth and their concerns about career advancement (Wright et al., 1996; Kempf et al., 2009). 
As a result, prior research has placed considerable emphasis on mitigating managerial myopia and deterring agent shirking. Re
searchers initially focus on examining the incentive system that motivates managers to take more risks. For instance, Sanders and 
Hambrick (2007) demonstrate that when managers are provided with stock options, they are more likely to take high-variance 
gambles. Another area of academic research is the study of ownership structure as an important variable influencing corporate risk 
attitudes. Considering the monitoring activities of equity stakeholders, Faccio et al. (2011) claim that firms owned by diversified large 
shareholders are more likely to engage in risky investment activities than firms owned by non-diversified large shareholders. In 
contrast, the largest controlling shareholders tend to exhibit a preference for risk aversion owing to the limited availability of 
diversification options (Zhang, 1998). With the exception of the largest controlling shareholder, the monitoring function of other 
shareholders effectively limits expropriation actions and thus encourages a higher level of risk-taking (Boubaker et al., 2016). In sum, a 
firm’s internal governance structure is likely to affect managers’ interests and influence their risk-taking behavior. 

In light of the above, we argue that few studies have connected corporate risk-taking with governance by introducing institutional 
cross-ownership, especially in the context of transitional economies. Thus, our study contributes to the literature by examining the 
consequences of cross-ownership structures in Chinese firms. 

2.2. Governance through voice or exit 

Large shareholders can exercise governance over firms through voice or exit (Shleifer and Vishny, 1986). The mechanism that has 
received the most academic attention is active monitoring through voice, which involves exercising voting rights and submitting 
proposals at shareholder meetings. Another mechanism that has received relatively little attention is the threat of exit, which can 
induce managers to react ex-ante even in the absence of actual action. 

Despite the fact that institutional investors hold relatively large fractions of shares in their portfolio companies, their participation 
in corporate governance based on overt forms of monitoring or activism efforts is limited (Edmans et al., 2019). This might be 
explained as follows. First, large investors are reluctant to monitor management because of the free-rider problem. They have to bear 
the costs of monitoring and controlling management, while the benefits of their activism are shared by all shareholders (Shleifer and 
Vishny, 1986). Institutional investors may not capture all the benefits, because they typically hold relatively small stakes in firms. In 
contrast, other investors can capture the substantial value simply by selling their shares. Second, the legal and regulatory environment 
may discourage institutional active participation. For example, the diversification rule1 directly affects the size of an institution’s 
ownership stake, which is not large enough for effective control. The acting in concert rule2 may discourage institutions from exer
cising power over corporate strategy because of the legal risk of misreporting. These rules place hurdles on how many shares in
stitutions can own and what they can do with those shares. Third, without proper oversight and sufficient incentives, institutions may 
not actively use shareholder proxy rights (Bebchuk et al., 2017). Their exercise of voting rights is closely related to existing business 
relationships rather than concerns about the future of the company (CvijanoviĆ et al., 2016). 

Meanwhile, the exit mechanism seems to be a viable alternative strategy for institutional investors. Large investors can exert in
fluence through trading, which appears to be more feasible and less costly than voting. The results of a survey conducted by McCahery 
et al. (2016) show that institutional investors rely heavily on exits across all governance channels. This is consistent with the findings of 
Parrino et al. (2003), who present an empirical study that directly supports this view. However, in China, Jiang and Kim (2015) report 
that some institutional shareholders are considered small blockholders, despite their rapid growth rate. A natural question at this point 
is whether their exit threat is credible if they cannot engage. Researchers argue that blockholders are able to govern through the exit, 
regardless of the availability of voice. In the influential theoretical study by Edmans (2009), blockholes can depress the stock price by 
selling their shares, thereby incorporating private information into prices. This ex-post punishment scrutinizes managerial behavior 

1 The 2004 Fund Management Company Measures issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”) published the diversification 
rule: any fund cannot hold more than 10% of its net assets in the shares of one listed company.  

2 According to the 2002 Shareholding Change Report Guideline issued by CSRC, shareholders shall disclose their purpose, formation date and plan 
once they form a concerted party through either a formal or informal agreement. 

3



W. Yin et al.                                                                                                                                                                 P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F i n a n c e  J o u r n a l 83 (2024) 102239

even when investors face disincentives to engage. In contrast, Admati and Pfleiderer (2009) support the notion that the threat of exit as 
an alternative voice mechanism generally mitigates agency problems based on private information. However, they question the 
effectiveness of exit threats in addressing any type of agency problem. Their theory predicts that the threat of exit reduces agency costs 
when the action induces managers to secure private benefits that are undesirable for shareholders (“bad action”). Meanwhile, when the 
action is costly for managers but desirable for shareholders (“good action”), the threat of exit can even exacerbate agency costs. More 
recently, Döring et al. (2021) provide empirical evidence that institutional shareholders regulate “bad action” agency problems more 
effectively through voice. Together, these studies highlight the importance of market pressure in corporate governance. 

2.3. Institutional cross-ownership and corporate risk-taking 

The “communication” view contends that institutional cross-ownership has a positive effect on corporate risk-taking by actively 
participating in corporate governance and reducing managers’ risk aversion. This view contends that institutional cross-owners have 
stronger incentives to engage firms to take on more risk. In general, a well-diversified owner can diversify firm-specific risk and bear 
more risk than individuals (Faccio et al., 2011; DesJardine et al., 2023). In contrast to cross-owners, managers tend to be risk-averse 
because their compensation relies solely on the performance of the focal firm (Wright et al., 1996). Since theoretical and empirical 
studies have shown that varying uncertainty boosts the future value of a firm (e.g. Wright et al., 1996; Faccio et al., 2011; Koirala et al., 
2020), cross-owners are more likely to require managers to undertake riskier projects. In particular, risk shifting by one firm can have 
similar effects on its peer firms. Bloom et al. (2013) strengthen the positive effect of R&D on gross social returns through spillovers. 
Further, Anton et al. (2021) theoretically demonstrate that firm innovation is sensitive to the internalization of knowledge externalities 
by cross-holders. Relative to holding a single firm, cross-holders may earn higher marginal returns for the same amount of monitoring 
inputs because they also receive benefits from all other peer firms (He et al., 2019). Thus, to maximize portfolio value, institutional 
investors should engage more actively with portfolio firms to pursue riskier investments. 

Moreover, by holding more than one company in an industry, diversified owners have an informational advantage that can reduce 
monitoring costs. Through the communication channel, institutional overlap may even unintentionally grasp quantitative knowledge 
(Jung, 2013). For instance, firm managers may seek advice from institutional investors about how their peers respond to a newly 
accepted disclosure policy. In this case, cross-holders can gradually discover private information about a firm’s behavior. Furthermore, 
cross-holding fund managers may share information during the coordination activities (Azar et al., 2018). Those industry-level 
commodities (e.g., similar strategy canvas, business environment, and disclosure policies) constitute the same considerable fixed 
costs involved in the costs of monitoring in the same industry (Ramalingegowda et al., 2021). The governance-relevant knowledge 
obtained from holding the portfolio ameliorates the process of obtaining and processing industry-specific information. Based on mixed 
integrated information, institutional investors can obtain a better understanding of the companies and identify more sources of 
investment. 

According to these arguments, institutional cross-ownership has a positive effect on firms’ risk-taking through increased incentives 
and monitoring capacity. Thus, we postulate our hypothesis as follows: 
Hypothesis H1a. Institutional cross-ownership enhances corporate risk-taking. 

On the contrary, the “signal” view suggests that institutional cross-ownership inadvertently lowers the level of corporate risk-taking 
through the threat of exit. The main effect of a diversified portfolio is that an institution’s selling choices transmit more information 
into the stock price (Edmans et al., 2019). If an institution holds multiple stakes, a sale sends a stronger negative signal to the market, 
implying that the company being sold is the only bad one in the portfolio. As shown by Huang et al. (2023), mutual funds always sell 
losers to satisfy creditor demands, resulting in a persistent effect on security prices in an asymmetric information environment. Once 
cross-holders transmit signals to the market, the information cascade theory suggests that the observing investors are likely to follow 
the actions of their predecessors instead of relying on their private information (Bikhchandani et al., 1992). Such herding behavior 
leads to a low price ex-post and induces market performance concerns ex-ante, as in Edmans (2009) and Admati and Pfleiderer (2009). 
Therefore, multiple holders may have a stronger consequential influence on managerial actions through the threat of exit. 

To avoid possible downward pressure, managers may be unwilling to take any risks at the beginning. Theoretical research predicts 
that if the public can observe what actions management takes, but only blockholders can observe the realized value of the company, 
then they will be inclined to sell their shares if they perceive that the value added is small (Admati and Pfleiderer, 2009). This is 
particularly true in China, where the investment logic of some large institutional shareholders is to seek immediate short-term gains 
rather than fundamental value (Xu et al., 2022). Downward pressure on prices reduces managers’ efforts because their productive 
activities can easily send bad signals to the market in the short run. After all, short-term stock prices can directly affect managers’ 
succession plans, professional reputation, and personal wealth. For instance, some stakeholders (e.g. credit-rating agencies) are less 
informed and can only learn from the information contained in the market (Bond et al., 2012). Since credit ratings are heavily 
influenced by price movements, a downward trend in prices may increase managers’ concerns about a firm’s ability to raise capital. 
Regarding short-term price effects, managers may reduce their risk-taking behavior because the riskier the actions they take, the more 
negative signals they may send to the market in the short term. According to this line of reasoning, the threat of exit may inadvertently 
exacerbate the agency problem and lead to lower levels of corporate risk-taking. 

The key assumption underlying the above literature is the essential agency problem that the interests of managers and shareholders 
are not well aligned. As a developing country on the path to a market-oriented economy, China is characterized by a weak albeit 
improving legal environment (Jiang and Kim, 2015). In the absence of strong legal protections, managers have a certain latitude in 
making strategic choices that advance their own interests. Therefore, given the possible shock from cross-owners, managers are more 

4



W. Yin et al.                                                                                                                                                                 P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F i n a n c e  J o u r n a l 83 (2024) 102239

inclined to choose risk-averse strategies. 
Based on the previous discussion, we argue that the exit threat is primarily used by institutional cross-ownership, which unin

tentionally induces insufficient risk-taking. Hence, we conjecture our hypothesis as follows: 
Hypothesis H1b. Institutional cross-ownership suppresses corporate risk-taking. 

3. Data and research design 

3.1. Sample and data sources 

This paper starts with a large sample of A-share companies listed on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges from 2007 to 
2019. Our sample starts in 2007 because China’s split-share reform to eliminate non-tradable shares was completed by the end of 2007. 
Since the proxies for corporate risk-taking are based on a three-year rolling window, we obtain financial data from 2007 to 2021, and 
our sample period ends in 2019. We derive the detailed quarterly institutional ownership data from the CSMAR database. State 
ownership information is obtained from the CNRDS database. Other financial information is obtained from the CSMAR database. 
Following convention, we exclude financial listed firms, special treatment listed firms, and firms with missing variables. To reduce the 
impact of outliers, we winsorize all the continuous variables at 1% in each tail. The final sample consists of 25,888 firm-year ob
servations associated with 3380 firms. 

3.2. Major variable measures 

3.2.1. Dependent variables 
Following the literature (Boubakri et al., 2013; Langenmayr and Lester, 2018), we construct two measures of risk-taking based on 

the volatility of return on assets because riskier firms exhibit more income uncertainty. The first proxy variable (Risk1) is calculated as 
the standard deviation of ROA over three-year periods where ROA is defined as the ratio of earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) to 
total assets. For instance, the level of corporate risk-taking in 2019 is measured by the volatility of ROA from 2019 to 2021. We use 
three-year windows as the basis for the calculation because the tenure of chief executive officers (CEOs) in China is generally three 
years. The second alternative proxy variable (Risk2) is the difference between the maximum and minimum ROA over a three-year 
interval. We multiply both measures by 100 for display in all the regressions. 

3.2.2. Independent variables 
For institutional cross-ownership, we follow He and Huang (2017)’s approach to construct the proxies for institutional cross- 

ownership at the firm-year level. We focus on institutional investors that own at least 5% of a firm’s outstanding shares, since 
these blockholders exert significant influence on corporate governance. We define our primary measure, CrossDum, as a dummy 
variable that equals one if a firm is ever cross-owned by institutional investors in any quarter of a fiscal year, and zero otherwise. Thus, 
CrossDum captures the effect of institutional cross-ownership of a given firm. Our results are consistent with the following continuous 
proxies for institutional cross-ownership (untabulated). The second measure, CrossNum, is the number of unique institutions that cross- 
own the firm, averaged over the four quarters. The third one, CrossShare, is the aggregate share of all institutional cross-owners, 
averaged over the four quarters. 

3.3. Methods 

We use the following regression model to investigate the relationship between institutional cross-ownership and corporate risk- 
taking: 

∑ ∑
Riski,t = β0 + β1CrossDumi,t + β2CVsi,t + Industry ε

j j + Yeart + i,t, (1)  
t

where Risk is one of the two measures of corporate risk-taking. CrossDum is an indicator variable that equals one if a firm has insti
tutional cross-ownership, and zero otherwise. CVs denote the control variables that may be significant for corporate risk-taking. In 
particular, we include firm size (Size) to account for the ability and willingness to make aggregate investments (Langenmayr and 
Lester, 2018; Koirala et al., 2020). Next, we control for firm investment opportunities by including sales growth (Growth) and market- 
to-book share (MTB) (Langenmayr and Lester, 2018). Later, we use firm age (FirmAge) to account for systematic variation in the level of 
risk-taking associated with a firm’s life cycle. We also consider leverage (Lev) to account for firms’ access to financing (Tran, 2019) and 
capital expenditure (Cap) to control for firms’ contribution to investment (Boubakri et al., 2013). Similarly, as suggested by Lan
genmayr and Lester (2018), we then control for a firm’s ability to sponsor risky projects by accounting for return on assets (ROA). To 
capture the effect of managerial entrenchment, we include CEO duality (Dual) and CEO share (CEOShare) (Ferris et al., 2017). Given 
that improved corporate governance may reduce managerial myopia, we control for board monitoring by including board indepen
dence (Indep) (Gopalan et al., 2021). Also, we consider the governance structure, which may affect the relationship between corporate 
risk-taking and institutional cross-ownership (Faccio et al., 2011; Boubaker et al., 2016). Therefore, we use equity balance (Balance), 
state ownership (StateShare), and institutional investor ownership (InstShare) as additional variables. Finally, we include Chinese 
regional GDP per capita (GDP) to capture the influence of country-level growth on managerial decisions (Boubakri et al., 2013). We 

5



W. Yin et al.                                                                                                                                                                 P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F i n a n c e  J o u r n a l 83 (2024) 102239

apply industry and year fixed effects and cluster standard errors at the firm level. 

4. Main results 

4.1. Summary statistics 

Table 1, Panel A, reports the descriptive statistics of the main variables. The mean of Risk1 (Risk2) is 3.204 (6.021), while the 
minimum and maximum values are 0.112 (0.217) and 21.150 (38.440), indicating large differences in the level of corporate risk- 
taking in our sample. The next three rows summarize the proxies for institutional cross-ownership. The mean of CrossDum is 0.136, 
indicating that 13.6% of the listed firms in our sample have institutional cross-ownership. This value is much lower than that of US 
firms (He and Huang, 2017), and one possible explanation is that mutual funds are prohibited by regulation from owning more than 
10% of a listed firm’s common stock. The summary statistics of the key variables are generally consistent with those in prior literature 
(Gao et al., 2019). Table 1, Panel B, presents the univariate comparisons. We divide our sample into groups based on whether they have 
institutional cross-ownership. Preliminary results show that, on average, firms without institutional cross-ownership are more willing 
to take risks than firms with institutional cross-ownership, supporting the “signal” view (Hypothesis H1b). 

4.2. Baseline results 

In this section, we examine the relationship between institutional cross-ownership and corporate risk-taking in the full sample. 
Table 2 reports the results of the baseline regression. The coefficients of independent variables are negative and significant at the 1% 
level, indicating that institutional cross-ownership is negatively associated with corporate risk-taking. Next, we examine the economic 
significance of CrossDum on Risk1 and Risk2. In columns (1) and (2), the coefficients of CrossDum indicate that when a firm moves from 
no institutional cross-owner to at least one institutional cross-owner, then it shows a decrease of 0.30 (0.55) in Risk1 (Risk2). Given that 
the mean of Risk1 (Risk2) in cross-owned firms is 2.70 (5.08), the magnitude of this effect is economically significant. We also note that 
the correlations between institutional ownership (InstShare) and firm risk-taking are negative and significant at the 1% level. This 
result is consistent with the work of Fan and Fu (2020), who find that, contrary to mature market expectations, institutions have little 
monitoring ability and instead exert more selling pressure. Since we have already included the proxy for institutions (InstShare), the 
coefficients of CrossDum can be interpreted as the incremental effect of institutional cross-ownership. This result supports H1b that 
institutional cross-ownership leads to lower levels of corporate risk-taking. 

4.3. Robustness checks 

4.3.1. Alternative measures of corporate risk-taking 
To test the robustness of our results, we begin by re-estimating the baseline model with alternative measures of corporate risk- 

taking. First, we use idiosyncratic risk (Risk3) as a market-based measure of firm risk. Idiosyncratic risk captures unexplained firm- 
specific risk that is independent of market movements. Following Langenmayr and Lester (2018), we calculate the standard devia
tion of the Fama-French three-factor regression residuals. Second, we consider financial distress, since higher risk-taking is associated 
with the probability of financial crisis. Following Ohlson (1980), we use the O-score (Risk4) to reflect the probability of bankruptcy. 
Third, we use total investment activity (Risk5) because firms will allocate more capital to long-term investments if they exhibit higher 
levels of risk-taking behavior. We define a firm’s total investment as non-cash assets scaled by total assets (Chen and Wang, 2019). 
Consistent with our expectations, all tests show consistent results as we observe negative statistical coefficients for CrossDum in the first 
three columns of Table 3. 

4.3.2. Alternative threshold for defining institutional cross-ownership 
In the previous tests, we keep observations for which institutions’ ownership exceeds 5%. It can be argued that the threshold may 

seem arbitrary because if institutions own more shares, they will have more incentives to engage, rather than to trade. In turn, we use 
an 8% threshold to include more institutions that own a larger fraction of shares. The results in columns (4) and (5) in Table 3 show 
that our results hold after using the alternative threshold. 

4.3.3. Subsample period analysis 
We use an alternative sample to confirm our conjecture. In 2011, the CSRC’s revision of the fair-trading system prevented in

vestment committees and directors from interfering with portfolio managers’ investment activities within their mandates. With greater 
autonomy, the exit threat of institutional cross-ownership is greater, leading to less corporate risk-taking. As shown in the last two 
columns of Table 3, we repeat our baseline regression only for the subsample of firms after the revision. The absolute coefficient 
estimates are much higher than those for the full sample, indicating that groups with higher exit threats have lower risk-taking. Again, 
the results are consistent with our hypothesis that the predominant exit threat from institutional cross-ownership reduces firms’ risk- 
taking. 

4.3.4. Alternative explanation exclusion 
We also consider an important alternative channel that explains how institutional cross-ownership can potentially decrease firm 

risk-taking from an anti-competitive perspective. According to Azar et al. (2018), cross-ownership can limit firms’ motivation to 

6



W. Yin et al.                                                                                                                                                                 P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F i n a n c e  J o u r n a l 83 (2024) 102239

compete and sustain high-profit margins, as the benefits of excessive competitive aggressiveness by one firm may offset the escalating 
costs of other firms in the portfolio. Therefore, we predict that the reduction in firm risk-taking is due to weakened managerial in
centives affected by controlled competition. Theory predicts that market product competition acts as a complement to managerial 
incentives, so firms in less competitive industries have weaker managerial incentives (Karuna, 2007). According to this argument, the 
effect of institutional cross-ownership shall be more pronounced in industries with high market share concentration because the small 
number of dominant shareholders can easily coordinate their strategies by reducing intense competition. Empirically, we construct 
Herfindahl-Hirschman Indices (HHI) of market concentration. We include HHI along with its interaction term with CrossDum. We find 
that the estimated coefficients of the interaction terms are positive and statistically insignificant. This suggests that our results are not 
driven by an anti-competitive explanation. For brevity, the results are not shown, but they are available from the authors upon request. 

4.4. Endogeneity mitigation 

4.4.1. Accounting for omitted variable bias 
Admittedly, we cannot completely rule out the omitted variable bias even though we have included relevant confounders in our 

baseline model. In particular, this problem is attributed to unobservable critical covariates. For example, managerial ability is related 
to both institutional preference and corporate risk-taking. Then, a possible relationship between corporate risk-taking and institutional 
cross-ownership may be due to the lack of measurement of managerial ability. 

To mitigate the potential threat of not including all possible confounders, we perform a bounding test to assess whether our es
timate is robust to omitted variable bias (Oster, 2019). The bounding approach identifies omitted variable bias after accounting for not 
only movements in the coefficients of the relevant variables, but also changes in the coefficient of determination in the models. As 
suggested, we follow the procedure to compute the bounding value. 

We obtain a bound estimate from the changes in the treatment effect after including the observable covariates. The analysis relies 
on two pieces of information. First, we set R2

max to 1.3 times the value of R2 derived from the specification with all observable variables. 
The R2

max limit is implied by Oster (2019) using empirical research from top journals. Second, we define the degree of selection on 
observables and unobservables (δ) as one. Following the suggestion of Oster (2019), one can expect that the most important controls 
have been selected in the models, so it seems reasonable to assume that the observables are at least as important as the unobservables. 
Given the degree of selection from observables to unobservables, we estimate the treatment effect as [β̃,β*(Rmax, δ )] when there is a 
downward bias.3 

Specifically, we use the user-written Stata command PSACALC to execute the bound analysis. Accordingly, we obtain (− 0.2993, 
− 0.1963)/(− 0.5527, − 0.3603) as the bounded interval for the dependent variable Risk1/Risk2. Obviously, the corresponding iden
tified set excludes zero. This may indicate that the effect of institutional cross-ownership has some causal effect on firms’ risk-taking. 
Overall, the results suggest that our main conclusion is unlikely to be driven by omitted variables. 

4.4.2. Excluding the selection effect of institutional cross-ownership 
The change in corporate risk-taking observed in our study can be attributed to a selection effect. This occurs when institutional 

cross-holders, who have their own risk preferences, choose to invest in firms with lower levels of risk-taking. We first examine whether 
institutions change their portfolio selection in response to firms’ risk-taking in the previous year. Consistent with Wu et al. (2023), we 
create a portfolio selection dummy (Cross) that takes the value of one for firms that are held by institutional cross-owners for the first 
time in the current year, and zero otherwise. We then regress Cross on lagged firm risk-taking, expecting a negative relationship if self- 
selection is present. In the first two columns of Table 4, the coefficients of lagged firm risk-taking are not statistically significant, 
indicating that institutional cross-owners do not hold stocks in response to firm risk-taking. Next, we examine whether institutional 
cross-ownership plays a role in identifying firms with the potential for consistent future performance. Specifically, following Dickinson 
(2011), we create a maturity dummy (Maturity) that equals one if the firm is considered mature, and zero otherwise. Since mature firms 
have already manifested stable performance, we expect the lagged maturity dummy (L.Maturity) to be positively related to Cross if 
institutional cross-ownership prefers a lower level of corporate risk-taking. As shown in column (3) of Table 4, the coefficient on 
L. Maturity is not statistically significant, suggesting that manifestly stable performance is not one of the selection criteria for insti
tutional cross-ownership. Overall, our results are inconsistent with the self-selection effect. 

4.4.3. Instrumental variable method 
Further, we use an instrumental variable (IV) method to address the endogeneity issues related to reverse causality and omitted 

variables. Similar to previous studies (e.g. Appel et al., 2016; Kang et al., 2018), we exploit the nature of the China securities index 
(CSI) composition as an instrumental variable. Since CSI indexes are value-weighted, institutions can select firms by tracking these 
indexes. Adjustments to index inclusion create notable exogenous changes in the ownership structure of firms. Although index allo
cations are rebalanced based on firms’ market capitalization, the selection criteria are determined by an arbitrary rule. Thus, changes 
in ownership structure should be exogenous after conditioning on market capitalization (Appel et al., 2016). In this setting, the CSI 

[ ]
3 Specifically, β*can be approximated by the expression: β* 2

≈ β̃ − δ β̇ − β̃ R 2
max − R̃ , whe e β̃ and R̃2 (β̇ and Ṙ2) are estimated using conditional 
R̃2 2 r

− Ṙ
(unconditional) regression of Eq. (1). 

7



W. Yin et al.                                                                                                                                                                 P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F i n a n c e  J o u r n a l 83 (2024) 102239

entrance satisfies the exclusion restriction because the index adjustment is relatively random. In addition, the index adjustment sat
isfies the relevance condition because index changes are associated with changes in an institution’s portfolio. For example, when a firm 
enters the CSI, the probability of having passive owners decreases, while the probability of having active owners increases (Kang et al., 
2018). Even if the target firms are not affected by the index adjustment, a change in the ownership structure is likely to occur when the 
co-owned peer firms are on the index list. Therefore, we use an IV approach based on the index listings. For investors, the CSI 300 and 
CSI 500 are popular benchmarks for tracking strategies. We create a CSI entrance dummy (DCSI) that takes the value of one if a stock 
switches from no index to either the CSI 300 or CSI 500, and zero otherwise. 

We report the regression results from columns (4) to (6) in Table 4. In the first-stage regression estimation, the coefficient estimate 
of DCSI is negative and significant at the 1% level, indicating that the relevance condition holds. In the second-stage estimation, the 
coefficients of CrossDum are generally negative and significant. When we use an instrument for institutional cross-ownership, an in
crease in institutional cross-ownership leads to a decrease in corporate risk-taking. The IV estimation confirms the results of our 
baseline results. 

5. Cross-sectional evidence 

This section discusses the underlying mechanism in more detail. As discussed above, the mechanism underlying H1b is that the exit 
threat from institutional cross-ownership triggers managerial behavior. Therefore, we expect the negative effect of institutional cross- 
ownership to be more pronounced when the exit threat is more credible or when managers are more concerned about market per
formance. Specifically, we examine the role of three factors: stock liquidity, blockholder competition, and state ownership. Our cross- 
sectional evidence is consistent with the capital market pressure channel through which institutional investors influence corporate 
risk-taking. 

5.1. Role of stock liquidity 

By reducing the cost of exit upon weak earnings, liquidity allows dissatisfied institutional cross-owners to exit rather than intervene 
(McCahery et al., 2016). With increased liquidity, an institution can trade more aggressively to avoid disappointing firm performance 
(Dou et al., 2018). Conversely, market illiquidity prevents institutions from selling in the short term. Low liquidity forces institutions to 
bear the costs of intervening in firms and actively participating in corporate governance (Edmans et al., 2013). Thus, liquidity en
courages investors to trade in large volumes and incorporate more information into stock prices. Because managers are sensitive to 
changes in stock prices, they are more likely to preserve private utility and therefore take less risk. Since liquidity increases the threat 
of exit, we expect the negative effect of institutional cross-ownership on corporate risk-taking to be more pronounced as liquidity 
increases. 

We include the negative of Amihud’s (2002) illiquidity ratio (Liquidity) and its interaction with CrossDum in our regressions. Table 5 
reports the effect of liquidity on the relationship between institutional cross-ownership and corporate risk-taking. Consistent with the 
above augments, we find in columns (1) and (2) that the negative impact of institutional cross-ownership on corporate risk-taking is 
more pronounced as liquidity increases. The evidence suggests that with higher liquidity, institutional cross-ownership is more 
effective in exacerbating managerial short-termism and inducing lower levels of corporate risk-taking. 

5.2. Role of blockholder competition 

As suggested by Dou et al. (2018), competition among multiple blockholders increases the threat of exit through their aggressive 
trading. Large stakes may be necessary for investors to exercise governance, but not desirable if they want to exit troubled firms 
(Edmans, 2009). On the contrary, the cost of coordination among multiple blockholders hinders intervention and motivates them to 
compete for trading profits (Dou et al., 2018). Then, competition among blockholders will intensify the informativeness of the stock 
price, and thus block sales will lead to a less attractive price (Edmans and Manso, 2011). Overall, we expect blockholder competition to 
facilitate the threat of exit from institutional cross-ownership on managers’ risk-taking behavior. 

Accordingly, we measure blockholder competition(BhComp) using the Herfindahl index of blockholder ownership multiplied by − 1 
(Dou et al., 2018). To measure the impact of blockholder competition on the relationship between institutional cross-ownership and 
corporate risk-taking, we include the interaction term between BhComp and CrossDum in our model. As shown in columns (3) and (4) of 
Table 5, the coefficients of the interaction terms are negative and statistically significant, suggesting that the negative effect of 
institutional cross-ownership on managers’ risk-taking behavior is stronger when blockholder competition is higher. The evidence is 
consistent with our prediction and strengthens our exit threat argument. 

5.3. Role of state ownership 

Finally, we examine the moderating effect of state ownership. Despite the transitional process of share privatization, state 
ownership is still prevalent in Chinese listed companies. Unlike private owners, the state is more likely to achieve socio-political goals 
to secure the political interests of bureaucrats. Apparently, wealth maximization is not the only objective for the state; rather, political 
self-interest may encourage politicians to engage in decision-making activities to realize a broader set of goals (Prabowo et al., 2018). 
Because the state is less concerned about short-term performance, its intervention provides managers with better protection against 
price declines to some extent. In particular, the state can reduce the tempting power of incentive-based compensation. Chinese SOE 

8



W. Yin et al.                                                                                                                                                                 P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F i n a n c e  J o u r n a l 83 (2024) 102239

managers are not incentivized by Western-style compensation, because they are not paid much more for better performance (Jiang and 
Kim, 2020). Since some managers are willing to return to government posts at the end of their tenure, they may be promoted and 
rewarded with non-monetary benefits later (Jiang and Kim, 2015). According to this view, we expect the effect of institutional cross- 
ownership to be more pronounced for firms with less state ownership if the exit threat is the underlying channel. 

We measure state ownership as the proportion of shares owned by the government (StateShare). The indicator objectively denotes 
the degree of state ownership as the ownership structure rarely changes. The higher the proportion of state-owned shares, the lower the 
pressure from the capital market. We include both StateShare and StateShare×CrossDum in our main equation. Columns (5) and (6) in 
Table 5 show the positive association of the interaction term, which supports our conjecture. Overall, this evidence suggests that firms 
with fewer state shares respond more strongly to the exit threat of institutional cross-ownership by reducing corporate risk-taking. 

6. Further analyses 

6.1. Types of institutions: who is responsible for the predictive power? 

6.1.1. Short- versus long-term institutions 
We further investigate the extent to which the predictive power of institutional cross-ownership can be attributed to institutions 

with varying horizons. According to Yan and Zhang (2009), short-term opportunists trade frequently and prioritize short-term value 
for speculative purposes. They regularly evaluate the performance and industry ranking of portfolio companies and sell shares when 
the performance of portfolio companies declines. In contrast, long-term institutional investors who follow a value investing strategy 
take a more active interest in a company’s operations and closely monitor management’s investment decisions (Chen et al., 2007). 
Consequently, firms with a higher proportion of short-term institutional investors are more likely to face a significant exit threat. One 
might expect that short-term investors are primarily responsible for the negative effects of institutional cross-ownership. 

To test this hypothesis, we follow the approach of Yan and Zhang (2009) and distinguish between short-term and long-term in
stitutions based on their average turnover rate rankings over the past two years. After sorting institutional investors into three tertile 
portfolios, we classify an institution as a short-term/long-term institution if its average turnover rate ranks in the top/bottom tertile. 
Then, STCrossShare/LTCrossShare measures the ratio of outstanding shares held by short-term/long-term institutional cross-owners. 
We include STCrossShare and LTCrossShare separately to our baseline equation separately in Table 6. 

We find strong evidence that the negative impact of institutional cross-ownership is mainly driven by short-term institutions. For 
example, in columns (1) and (2), when controlling for STCrossShare, the absolute value of the coefficient of CrossShare declines (from 
− 0.783 to − 0.321) and is no longer significant, while the coefficient of STCrossShare is − 1.680 and significant at the 1% level. In 
contrast, when both LTCrossShare and CrossShare are included in the regression equation, the untabulated results show that the co
efficient of CrossShare remains significantly negative, while the coefficient of LTCrossShare is positive and significant at the 1% level. 
These results suggest that the predictive ability of CrossShare is completely subsumed by STCrossShare. Interestingly, we find that 
LTCrossShare increases the level of corporate risk-taking, suggesting that long-term cross-owners effectively monitor the management 
and suppress managerial myopia. 

6.1.2. Active versus passive institutions 
Next, we split short-term institutions into active cross-owners and passive cross-owners. According to our logic, the primary un

derlying mechanism of institutional cross-ownership in managerial decision-making is the threat of exit. However, since passive in
vestments typically track indexes, they are unlikely to exit owing to changes in corporate decision-making (McCahery et al., 2016; 
Helling et al., 2020). Therefore, we expect the negative impact of institutional cross-ownership to be driven mainly by active short- 
term institutions. 

Following Kim et al. (2019), we categorize institutional owners into passive and active owners according to institution type. In 
particular, we classify banks, trusts, and insurance companies as passive owners and investment companies and investment advisors as 
active owners. We denote STCrossShare(Passive)/STCrossShare(Active) as the aggregate shares held by passive/active institutional 
cross-owners, respectively. In Table 6, columns (3) and (6) show the results with active and passive short-term institutions. When 
controlling for STCrossShare(Passive) and STCrossShare(Active), the coefficients of overall institutional cross-ownership are no longer 
significant. In contrast, the coefficients of STCrossShare(Passive) are positive and insignificant, while the coefficients of STCrossShare 
(Active) are negative and significant at the 1% level. Consistent with our belief, passive investors have fewer incentives to use the exit 
threat. In all, we empirically show that the prohibiting effect of cross-ownership on risk-taking is primarily driven by active short-term 
institutions. 

6.2. Do risk-taking behaviors affect future firm performance? 

We also examine whether a firm’s long-term growth is affected by its willingness to take greater risks. In particular, if managers are 
risk-averse, they will forgo risky but valuable investment projects and hold excessive cash (Tran, 2019). Given the key role of tangible 
or intangible assets in achieving competitive advantage, the future performance of the firm may be negatively affected. Therefore, it is 
essential to understand the economic consequences of institutional cross-ownership. 

This paper uses TobinQ, a measure of firm value, and includes it as the dependent variable in model (1), while adding the cross 
product of cross-ownership and firm risk-taking (CrossDum×Risk) to investigate the impact of firm risk-taking on future firm value 
driven by cross-ownership. Since the impact of institutional cross-ownership on firm value may be lagged, the response variables are 

9



W. Yin et al.                                                                                                                                                                 P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F i n a n c e  J o u r n a l 83 (2024) 102239

tested using periods t + 1 to t + 2. Consistent with our conjecture, the future firm value is less responsive to corporate risk-taking in 
firms held by institutional cross-ownership. For example, in column (1) of Table 7, the estimated coefficient of the interaction term 
(CrossDum×Risk1) is negative and significant at the 5% level. This result is robust to regressions over the next associated columns, 
suggesting that cross-owners weaken the positive relationship between risk-taking behavior and future firm performance. This can be 
explained by the tendency of managers to “leave money on the table” rather than embark on riskier but value-creating projects under 
market pressure from cross-owners. 

6.3. Disciplining effect of institutional cross-ownership 

More broadly, the threat of exit due to institutional cross-ownership may discipline managers and reduce undesirable behavior 
from the blockholders’ perspective (Admati and Pfleiderer, 2009). The existence of “bad action” agency problems, such as corporate 
wrongdoing, can be effectively mitigated by the credible threat of exit. As informed blockholders, institutional investors can observe 
the true value of managers’ actions and exit in response to the potential unexpected outcomes. Therefore, managers will reduce the 
extraction of private actions and align their interests with blockholders (Dou et al., 2018). As a result, the amplified exit threat will 
reduce the need for managers to engage in undesirable activities. In this case, the governance power stemming from institutional cross- 
ownership reduces the incidence of corporate misconduct. 

We use the firm’s probability and level of financial irregularities as proxies for corporate misconduct. First, we define VIO as 
whether the firm commits financial reporting irregularities. VIO takes the value of one as if the firm violates the law, and zero 
otherwise. Second, we define Degree as the severity of penalties, which is divided into four levels based on severity (Li and Li, 2020). 
Higher values of Degree indicate more penalties. For each measure of firm misconduct, the coefficient of CrossDum in Table 7 is negative 
and significant, suggesting that firm misconduct decreases in response to the exit threat of institutional cross-ownership. 

( ) ∑ ∑
VIOi,t Degreei,t = β0 + β1CrossDumi,t + β2CVsi,t + Industry

j j + Yeart + εi,t, (2) 
t

However, a reduction in corporate misconduct may also be due to the monitoring effects of institutional cross-ownership. Thus, it is 
difficult to disentangle the true effects. We then conduct an additional test to examine whether the exit threat is the dominant channel 
through which institutional investors act. As suggested by Admati and Pfleiderer (2009), “bad action” agency problems are more likely 
to occur in cash-rich firms. Consistent with this argument, we predict that the disciplining effect of exit threats is more effective in 
situations prone to free cash flow abuse. We use Cash to denote the free cash flows standardized by total assets at the beginning of the 
year. We then modify model (3) to include Cash and the interaction between Cash and CrossDum. The results reported in Table 7 show 
that the coefficients of the interaction between Cash and CrossDum are negative and significant, suggesting that the reduction in 
corporate misconduct following the presence of institutional cross-ownership is more pronounced for cash-rich firms. These results 
confirm that the threat of exit is the dominant corporate governance practice of institutions. 

7. Conclusion 

We examine the relationship between institutional cross-ownership and corporate risk-taking. Theoretically, institutional cross- 
owners can influence firm behavior through either voting or trading (Edmans et al., 2019). However, institutional investors are 
less inclined to actively participate in China. Since the threat of exit can have a detrimental effect on firm-specific risks, we examine the 
effects of institutional cross-ownership in the specific context of China. 

Our results differ from those of previous studies of the US capital market, in that we shed light on the negative effects of institutional 
cross-ownership in China. In particular, we show that this practice can significantly exacerbate managerial myopia and lead to reduced 
corporate risk-taking. By holding multiple companies, institutional investors will sell the losers, sending a strong signal to the market, 
and the resulting downward pressure exacerbates managers’ risk-taking myopia. Our cross-sectional tests support our hypothesis that 
institutional cross-owners influence corporate risk-taking primarily through capital market pressure. Our findings provide a unique 
perspective on the governance of institutional cross-ownership, suggesting that in a transitional market, institutional cross-ownership 
may not always align with the interests of managers and shareholders. Rather, under the amplified exit threat, managers undertake 
fewer risks in response to the downward price pressure. However, since previous studies have documented the positive aspects of 
institutional cross-ownership, we do not classify its exit threat as a negative attribute. In addition, we emphasize the positive impact of 
disciplinary channels in reducing corporate misconduct. Thus, we contribute to the current literature that the exit threat of institu
tional ownership may have different outcomes depending on the agency problem. 

Financial support 

This research is partially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No.72072133) and Fundamental 
Research Funds for the Central Universities, Sun Yat-Sen University (Grant No. 2023qntd47). 

CRediT authorship contribution statement 

Wenjing Yin: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Validation, Formal analysis, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & 
editing. Weiping Li: Methodology, Software, Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Project administration. Yumiao Yu: Writing – 

10



W. Yin et al.                                                                                                                                                                 P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F i n a n c e  J o u r n a l 83 (2024) 102239

review & editing, Supervision, Project administration, Funding acquisition. 

Declaration of Competing Interest 

No potential conflict of interest was reported by the authors. 

Acknowledgments 

We appreciate valuable comments from anonymous reviewers. We also thank LetPub (www.letpub.com) for its linguistic assistance 
during the preparation of this manuscript. 

Appendices  

Table 1 
Summary statistics and univariate comparison.  

Panel A: Summary statistics 

VarName Obs Mean SD Min Median Max 

Risk1 25,888 3.204 4.090 0.112 1.711 21.150 
Risk2 25,888 6.021 7.565 0.217 3.262 38.440 
CrossDum 25,888 0.136 0.343 0.000 0.000 1.000 
CrossNum 25,888 0.092 0.243 0.000 0.000 1.609 
CrossShare 25,888 0.038 0.114 0.000 0.000 0.585 
Size 25,888 15.567 0.947 13.742 15.460 18.417 
Growth 25,888 0.189 0.428 − 0.535 0.116 2.792 
MTB 25,888 2.092 1.835 0.182 1.561 10.413 
FirmAge 25,888 2.789 0.375 0.693 2.833 4.127 
Lev 25,888 0.435 0.206 0.054 0.431 0.892 
Cap 25,888 0.052 0.049 0.000 0.038 0.235 
ROA 25,888 0.054 0.067 − 0.323 0.052 0.331 
Dual 25,888 0.253 0.435 0.000 0.000 1.000 
CEOShare 25,888 0.045 0.106 0.000 0.000 0.502 
Indep 25,888 0.373 0.055 0.091 0.333 0.800 
Balance 25,888 0.697 0.601 0.024 0.526 2.770 
StateShare 25,888 0.055 0.142 0.000 0.000 0.660 
InstShare 25,888 0.449 0.241 0.004 0.472 0.907 
GDP 25,888 10.996 0.530 8.972 11.058 12.009  
Panel B: Comparison between firms with and without institutional cross-ownership  

Non-cross-held Cross-held Difference 

Mean Median Mean Median Mean Median 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (1)–(3) (2)–(4) 
Risk1 3.283 1.747 2.699 1.506 0.584*** 0.241*** 
Risk2 6.169 3.329 5.084 2.853 1.085*** 0.476*** 
Size 15.500 15.410 16.020 15.840 − 0.520*** − 0.430*** 
Growth 0.192 0.119 0.167 0.102 0.025*** 0.017*** 
MTB 2.168 1.635 1.609 1.112 0.559*** 0.523*** 
FirmAge 2.780 2.833 2.839 2.890 − 0.059*** − 0.057*** 
Lev 0.425 0.419 0.497 0.508 − 0.072*** − 0.089*** 
Cap 0.052 0.037 0.053 0.040 − 0.001 − 0.002** 
ROA 0.054 0.052 0.054 0.050 0.000 0.003*** 
Dual 0.268 0.000 0.155 0.000 0.113*** 0.000*** 
CEOShare 0.050 0.000 0.015 0.000 0.034*** 0.000*** 
Indep 0.373 0.333 0.368 0.333 0.005*** 0.000 
Balance 0.691 0.515 0.732 0.593 − 0.041*** − 0.078*** 
StateShare 0.048 0.000 0.098 0.000 − 0.050*** 0.000*** 
InstShare 0.427 0.446 0.590 0.602 − 0.163*** − 0.156*** 

This table reports the descriptive statistics for the variables in our regressions. Panel A shows the number of observations, mean, standard deviation, 
minimum, median, and maximum values. The sample consists of 25,888 firm-year observations over the sample period 2007–2019. Panel B presents 
the differences in characteristics of firms with and without institutional cross-ownership. ***, **, and * denote statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, 
and 10% levels, respectively.  

11



W. Yin et al.                                                                                                                                                                 P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F i n a n c e  J o u r n a l 83 (2024) 102239

Table 2 
Institutional cross-ownership and corporate risk-taking.   

Risk1 Risk2 

(1) (2) 
CrossDum − 0.2993*** − 0.5527*** 

(− 2.7958) (− 2.7639) 
Size 0.1967*** 0.3584*** 

(3.8290) (3.7494) 
Growth 0.1545** 0.2582* 

(2.0332) (1.8491) 
MTB 0.4159*** 0.7773*** 

(14.5693) (14.7358) 
FirmAge 0.1323 0.2557 

(1.0668) (1.1049) 
Lev 1.1535*** 2.1988*** 

(4.4512) (4.5735) 
Cap − 2.9611*** − 5.2703*** 

(− 4.2629) (− 4.0629) 
ROA − 19.3689*** − 35.5484*** 

(− 23.1461) (− 23.0245) 
Dual 0.2803*** 0.5192*** 

(2.8439) (2.8437) 
CEOShare − 1.3901*** − 2.5592*** 

(− 3.0896) (− 3.0614) 
Indep − 0.7120 − 1.3124 

(− 1.0377) (− 1.0304) 
Balance 0.2603*** 0.4727*** 

(3.6276) (3.5463) 
StateShare − 0.8451*** − 1.5731*** 

(− 3.9555) (− 3.9450) 
InstShare − 1.2302*** − 2.2855*** 

(− 5.8586) (− 5.8616) 
GDP − 0.1678* − 0.3182* 

(− 1.7149) (− 1.7466) 
Industry & Year FE Yes Yes 
Observations 25,888 25,888 
Adjusted R2 0.1624 0.1615 

This table presents the impact of institutional cross-ownership on corporate risk- 
taking. Risk1 is the standard deviation of ROA over three-year overlapping pe
riods, while Risk2 is the difference between the maximum and minimum ROA over 
a three-year interval. CrossDum is an indicator variable that equals one if an en
terprise is ever cross-held by institutional investors in any quarter in a fiscal year, 
and zero otherwise. All regressions control for industry and year fixed effects. The 
t-statistics in parentheses are based on robust standard errors clustered at the firm 
level. ***, **, and * denote statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% levels, 
respectively.  

Table 3 
Robustness checks.   

Alternative measures of risks Alternative ownership proportions Sub-sample period analysis 

Risk3 Risk4 Risk5 Risk1 Risk2 Risk1 Risk2 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 

CrossDum − 0.0005*** − 0.3112*** − 0.0215*** − 0.4046*** − 0.7561*** − 0.3539*** − 0.6555*** 
(− 3.3411) (− 2.8339) (− 5.4102) (− 3.4675) (− 3.4777) (− 2.8657) (− 2.8507) 

Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Industry & Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Observations 25,549 25,888 11,881 25,888 25,888 19,805 19,805 
Adjusted R2 0.4207 0.6283 0.3275 0.1627 0.1618 0.1775 0.1773 

This table presents the results of robustness checks. The first three columns present the results of regressions of alternative measures for corporate risk- 
taking. Risk3 is an idiosyncratic risk, measured as the standard deviation of the Fama-French three-factor regression residuals. Risk4 is the O-score, 
which is the probability of bankruptcy. Risk5 is a firm’s total investment as firms will devote more capital to long-term investments if they exhibit 
higher levels of risk-seeking behaviors. The next two columns present the results of regressions employing CrossDum with an alternative threshold. 
The last two columns re-estimate the baseline regression for the year after the fair-trading system revision by the CSRC. All regressions control for 
industry and year fixed effects. The t-statistics in parentheses are based on robust standard errors clustered at the firm level. ***, **, and * denote 
statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% levels, respectively.  

12



W. Yin et al.                                                                                                                                                                 P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F i n a n c e  J o u r n a l 83 (2024) 102239

Table 4 
Endogeneity mitigation.   

Exclude the selection effect of institutional cross-ownership An instrumental variable method 

Cross Cross Cross CrossDum Risk1 Risk2 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 

L.Risk1 − 0.0003      
(− 1.2890)      

L.Risk2  − 0.0002      
(− 1.3849)     

L.Maturity   − 0.0004      
(− 0.2387)    

DCSI    − 0.0352***     
(− 3.4141)   

CrossDum     − 9.2143** − 17.2433**     
(− 2.3772) (− 2.3799) 

Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Industry & Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Observations 21,648 21,648 21,648 25,888 25,888 25,888 
Adjusted R2 0.0119 0.0119 0.0119 0.0883 – – 

This table presents the results of endogeneity mitigation. The first three columns show regression results that exclude the selection effect of insti
tutional cross-ownership. Cross takes the value of one for firms held by institutional cross-owners for the first time in the current year, and zero 
otherwise. Maturity equals one if the firm is considered mature, and zero otherwise. The next three columns employ an instrumental variable esti
mation. DCSI takes the value of one if a stock switches from no index to either CSI300 or 500 indexes, and zero otherwise. Column (4) presents the 
result of the first-stage regression while columns (5) and (6) present the results of the second-stage regression. All regressions control for industry and 
year fixed effects. The t-statistics in parentheses are based on robust standard errors clustered at the firm level. ***, **, and * denote statistical 
significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% levels, respectively.  
Table 5 
Cross-sectional evidence.   

Stock liquidity Blockholder competition State ownership 

Risk1 Risk2 Risk1 Risk2 Risk1 Risk2 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 

CrossDum − 0.3903*** − 0.7272*** − 0.8512*** − 1.5730*** − 0.3870*** − 0.7173*** 
(− 3.2996) (− 3.2949) (− 3.0764) (− 3.0484) (− 3.2769) (− 3.2584) 

CrossDum×Liquidity − 0.1703** − 0.3253**     
(− 2.4091) (− 2.4393)     

CrossDum×BhComp   − 0.8096** − 1.4968**     
(− 2.0664) (− 2.0497)   

CrossDum×StateShare     1.0071** 1.8887**     
(2.4022) (2.4101) 

Liquidity 0.1478*** 0.2698***     
(4.5063) (4.4562)     

BhComp   0.7022*** 1.2959***     
(2.8137) (2.7969)   

StateShare − 0.8568*** − 1.5956*** − 0.8459*** − 1.5745*** − 1.0823*** − 2.0179*** 
(− 4.0064) (− 3.9978) (− 3.9736) (− 3.9623) (− 4.6321) (− 4.6273) 

Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Industry & Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Observations 25,888 25,888 25,888 25,888 25,888 25,888 
Adjusted R2 0.1631 0.1622 0.1631 0.1622 0.1626 0.1617 

This table presents the results of cross-sectional evidence. Liquidity is measured as the negative of Amihud’s (2002) illiquidity ratio. BhComp is 
measured for blockholder competition by using blockholder concentration. StateShare is the fraction of stakes owned by the government. All re
gressions control for industry and year fixed effects. The t-statistics in parentheses are based on robust standard errors clustered at the firm level. ***, 
**, and * denote statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% levels, respectively.  
Table 6 
Types of institutions: Who is responsible for the predictive power?   

Risk1 Risk2 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 

CrossShare − 0.7830*** − 0.3210 − 0.3206 − 1.4522** − 0.5926 − 0.5919 
(− 2.5844) (− 0.9724) (− 0.9711) (− 2.5683) (− 0.9654) (− 0.9641) 

STCrossShare  − 1.6795***  − 3.1252***  
(− 2.9324)   (− 2.9414)  

STCrossShare(Active)   − 1.6917***  − 3.1476*** 
(continued on next page) 

13



W. Yin et al.                                                                                                                                                                 P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F i n a n c e  J o u r n a l 83 (2024) 102239
Table 6 (continued )  

Risk1 Risk2 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)   

(− 2.9545)   (− 2.9631) 
STCrossShare(Passive)   1.9573   3.5662   

(0.2051)   (0.2027) 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Industry & Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Observations 25,888 25,888 25,888 25,888 25,888 25,888 
Adjusted R2 0.1623 0.1626 0.1626 0.1614 0.1617 0.1617 

This table presents the analysis of different types of institutions. CrossShare is the aggregate shares held by all institutional cross-holders, averaged 
over the four quarters. STCrossShare measures the ratio of outstanding shares held by short-term institutional cross-owners. STCrossShare(Active) and 
STCrossShare(Passive) are denoted for the ratio of outstanding shares held by active and passive short-term institutional cross-owners, respectively. 
All regressions control for industry and year fixed effects. The t-statistics in parentheses are based on robust standard errors clustered at the firm level. 
***, **, and * denote statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% levels, respectively.  
Table 7 
Economic consequence analysis.   

Future firm value The disciplining impact 

F.TobinQ F2.TobinQ VIO DEGREE VIO DEGREE 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) 
CrossDum 0.0864*** 0.0875*** 0.0826** 0.0850** − 0.4468*** − 0.4419*** − 0.6306*** − 0.6266*** 

(2.6852) (2.7048) (2.1040) (2.1559) (− 2.8045) (− 2.7514) (− 3.4086) (− 3.4023) 
CrossDum×Risk1 − 0.0149**  − 0.0157*      

(− 2.3015)  (− 1.6749)      
CrossDum×Risk2  − 0.0081**  − 0.0088*      

(− 2.3198)  (− 1.7527)     
CrossDum×Cash       − 0.6382** − 0.6427**       

(− 2.1971) (− 2.1934) 
Risk1 0.0220***  0.0287***      

(8.3771)  (7.5966)      
Risk2  0.0119***  0.0157***      

(8.4776)  (7.6937)     
Cash       − 0.1182 − 0.1272       

(− 0.9785) (− 1.0443) 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Industry & Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Observations 24,865 24,865 21,835 21,835 25,888 25,888 25,888 25,888 
Adjusted R2/Pseudo R2 0.5530 0.5531 0.4430 0.4431 0.0554 0.0486 0.0561 0.0492 

This table presents the analysis of economic consequences. TobinQ denotes firm value. VIO takes the value of one as if the firm violates legislation, and 
zero otherwise. Degree is the penalty severity divided into four levels based on severity. We use Cash to denote the free cash flows standardized by total 
assets at the beginning year. All regressions control for industry and year fixed effects. The t-statistics in parentheses are based on robust standard 
errors clustered at the firm level. ***, **, and * denote statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% levels, respectively. 

References 

Admati, A.R., Pfleiderer, P., 2009. The “wall street walk” and shareholder activism: exit as a form of voice. Rev. Financ. Stud. 22, 2645–2685. 
Amihud, Y., 2002. Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects. J. Financ. Mark. 5, 31–56. 
Anton, M., Ederer, F., Gine, M., Schmalz, M.C.. Innovation: the bright side of common ownership? Working paper. Available here: https://ssrn.com/ 

abstract=3099578. 
Appel, I.R., Gormley, T.A., Keim, D.B., 2016. Passive investors, not passive owners. J. Financ. Econ. 121, 111–141. 
Azar, J., Schmalz, M.C., Tecu, I., 2018. Anticompetitive effects of common ownership. J. Financ. 73, 1513–1565. 
Bebchuk, L.A., Cohen, A., Hirst, S., 2017. The agency problems of institutional investors. J. Econ. Perspect. 31, 89–102. 
Bikhchandani, S., Hirshleifer, D., Welch, I., 1992. A theory of fads, fashion, custom, and cultural change as informational cascades. J. Polit. Econ. 100, 992–1026. 
Bloom, N., Schankerman, M., Van Reenen, J., 2013. Identifying technology spillovers and product market rivalry. Econometrica. 81, 1347–1393. 
Bond, P., Edmans, A., Goldstein, I., 2012. The real effects of financial markets. Annu. Rev. Financ. Econ. 4, 339–360. 
Boubaker, S., Nguyen, P., Rouatbi, W., 2016. Multiple large shareholders and corporate risk-taking: evidence from French family firms. Eur. Financ. Manag. 22, 

697–745. 
Boubakri, N., Cosset, J.-C., Saffar, W., 2013. The role of state and foreign owners in corporate risk-taking: evidence from privatization. J. Financ. Econ. 108, 641–658. 
Chen, I.J., Wang, D.K., 2019. Real option, idiosyncratic risk, and corporate investment: evidence from Taiwan family firms. Pac. Basin Financ. J. 57, 101029. 
Chen, X., Harford, J., Li, K., 2007. Monitoring: which institutions matter? J. Financ. Econ. 86, 279–305. 
Claessens, S., Fan, J.P.H., 2002. Corporate governance in Asia: a survey. Int. Rev. Financ. 3, 71–103. 
CvijanoviĆ, D., Dasgupta, A., Zachariadis, K.E., 2016. Ties that bind: how business connections affect mutual fund activism. J. Financ. 71, 2933–2966. 
DesJardine, M.R., Grewal, J., Viswanathan, K., 2023. A rising tide lifts all boats: the effects of common ownership on corporate social responsibility. Organ. Sci. 34, 

1716–1735. 
Dickinson, V., 2011. Cash flow patterns as a proxy for firm life cycle. Account. Rev. 86, 1969–1994. 

14



W. Yin et al.                                                                                                                                                                 P a c i fi c - B a s i n  F i n a n c e  J o u r n a l 83 (2024) 102239

Döring, S., Drobetz, W., El Ghoul, S., Guedhami, O., Schröder, H., 2021. Institutional investment horizons and firm valuation around the world. J. Int. Bus. Stud. 52, 
212–244. 

Dou, Y., Hope, O.-K., Thomas, W.B., Zou, Y., 2018. Blockholder exit threats and financial reporting quality. Contemp. Account. Res. 35, 1004–1028. 
Edmans, A., 2009. Blockholder trading, market efficiency, and managerial myopia. J. Financ. 64, 2481–2513. 
Edmans, A., Manso, G., 2011. Governance through trading and intervention: a theory of multiple blockholders. Rev. Financ. Stud. 24, 2395–2428. 
Edmans, A., Fang, V.W., Zur, E., 2013. The effect of liquidity on governance. Rev. Financ. Stud. 26, 1443–1482. 
Edmans, A., Levit, D., Reilly, D., 2019. Governance under common ownership. Rev. Financ. Stud. 32, 2673–2719. 
Faccio, M., Marchica, M.-T., Mura, R., 2011. Large shareholder diversification and corporate risk-taking. Rev. Financ. Stud. 24, 3601–3641. 
Fan, Y., Fu, H., 2020. Institutional investors, selling pressure and crash risk: evidence from China. Emerg. Mark. Rev. 42, 100670. 
Ferris, S.P., Javakhadze, D., Rajkovic, T., 2017. CEO social capital, risk-taking and corporate policies. Finance 47, 46–71. 
Gao, K., Shen, H., Gao, X., Chan, K.C., 2019. The power of sharing: evidence from institutional investor cross-ownership and corporate innovation. Int. Rev. Econ. 

Financ. 63, 284–296. 
Gopalan, R., Gormley, T.A., Kalda, A., 2021. It’s not so bad: director bankruptcy experience and corporate risk-taking. J. Financ. Econ. 142, 261–292. 
He, J., Huang, J., 2017. Product market competition in a world of cross-ownership: evidence from institutional blockholdings. Rev. Financ. Stud. 30, 2674–2718. 
He, J., Huang, J., Zhao, S., 2019. Internalizing governance externalities: the role of institutional cross-ownership. J. Financ. Econ. 134, 400–418. 
Helling, A.R., Maury, B., Liljeblom, E., 2020. Exit as governance: do blockholders affect corporate innovation in large US firms? Account. Finance 60, 1703–1725. 
Huang, S., Ringgenberg, M.C., Zhang, Z., 2023. The information in asset fire sales. Manag. Sci. 69, 5066–5086. 
Jiang, F., Kim, K.A., 2015. Corporate governance in China: a modern perspective. Finance 32, 190–216. 
Jiang, F., Kim, K.A., 2020. Corporate governance in China: a survey. Rev. Finan. 24, 733–772. 
Jung, M.J., 2013. Investor overlap and diffusion of disclosure practices. Rev. Account. Stud. 18, 167–206. 
Kang, J.-K., Luo, J., Na, H.S., 2018. Are institutional investors with multiple blockholdings effective monitors? J. Financ. Econ. 128, 576–602. 
Karuna, C., 2007. Industry product market competition and managerial incentives. J. Account. Econ. 43, 275–297. 
Kempf, A., Ruenzi, S., Thiele, T., 2009. Employment risk, compensation incentives, and managerial risk taking: evidence from the mutual fund industry. J. Financ. 

Econ. 92, 92–108. 
Kim, H.-D., Kim, T., Kim, Y., Park, K., 2019. Do long-term institutional investors promote corporate social responsibility activities? J. Bank. Financ. 101, 256–269. 
Koirala, S., Marshall, A., Neupane, S., Thapa, C., 2020. Corporate governance reform and risk-taking: evidence from a quasi-natural experiment in an emerging 

market. Finance 61, 101396. 
Langenmayr, D., Lester, R., 2018. Taxation and corporate risk-taking. Account. Rev. 93, 237–266. 
Li, X., Li, Y., 2020. Female independent directors and financial irregularities in Chinese listed firms: from the perspective of audit committee chairpersons. Financ. Res. 

Lett. 32, 101320. 
McCahery, J.A., Sautner, Z., Starks, L.T., 2016. Behind the scenes: the corporate governance preferences of institutional investors. J. Financ. 71, 2905–2932. 
Ohlson, J.A., 1980. Financial ratios and the probabilistic prediction of bankruptcy. J. Account. Res. 18, 109–131. 
Oster, E., 2019. Unobservable selection and coefficient stability: theory and evidence. J. Bus. Econ. Stat. 37, 187–204. 
Parrino, R., Sias, R.W., Starks, L.T., 2003. Voting with their feet: institutional ownership changes around forced CEO turnover. J. Financ. Econ. 68, 3–46. 
Prabowo, R., Hooghiemstra, R., Van Veen-Dirks, P., 2018. State ownership, socio-political factors, and labor cost stickiness. Eur. Account. Rev. 27, 771–796. 
Ramalingegowda, S., Utke, S., Yu, Y., 2021. Common institutional ownership and earnings management. Contemp. Account. Res. 38, 208–241. 
Sanders, W.M.G., Hambrick, D.C., 2007. Swinging for the fences: the effects of CEO stock options on company risk taking and performance. Acad. Manag. J. 50, 

1055–1078. 
Shleifer, A., Vishny, R.W., 1986. Large shareholders and corporate control. J. Polit. Econ. 94, 461–488. 
Tan, L., Chiang, T.C., Mason, J.R., Nelling, E., 2008. Herding behavior in Chinese stock markets: an examination of A and B shares. Pac. Basin Financ. J. 16, 61–77. 
Tran, Q.T., 2019. Economic policy uncertainty and corporate risk-taking: international evidence. J. Multinatl. Financ. Manag. 52-53, 100605. 
Wright, P., Ferris, S.P., Sarin, A., Awasthi, V., 1996. Impact of corporate insider, blockholder, and institutional equity ownership on firm risk taking. Acad. Manag. J. 

39, 441–458. 
Wu, X., Li, Y., Feng, C., 2023. Green innovation peer effects in common institutional ownership networks. Corp. Soc. Responsib. Environ. Manag. 30, 641–660. 
Xu, C., Xu, Y., Fe, Li, 2022. Can the exit threat of non-controlling major shareholders promote corporate innovation? Tech. Anal. Strat. Manag. 34, 876–890. 
Yan, X., Zhang, Z., 2009. Institutional investors and equity returns: are short-term institutions better informed? Rev. Financ. Stud. 22, 893–924. 
Zhang, G., 1998. Ownership concentration, risk aversion and the effect of financial structure on investment decisions. Eur. Econ. Rev. 42, 1751–1778. 

Wenjing Yin is a Doctoral Candidate at Wuhan University in China. Her current research interests include accounting, corporate governance, and corporate social 
responsibility. 

Weiping Li currently serves as an Assistant Professor at Sun Yat-sen University in China. He received his Ph.D. at the College of Business, City University of Hong Kong. 
His research interests include corporate finance, corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, and innovation. His work has been published in a variety of 
journals including Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, Finance Research Letters, International Review of Economics and Finance, Energy Economics, European Journal of Finance, 
Economic System, Economic Research-Ekonomska Istraživanja, Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting & Economics, etc. 

Yumiao Yu presently serves as a Professor at Wuhan University in China. His research interests include auditing, financial accounting, capital markets, and corporate 
governance. He has published many articles in Journal of International Accounting Research, Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Journal of Management World, 
Accounting Research, Auditing Research, Management Review, Chinese Journal of Management, Journal of Management Sciences in China, etc. 

15