Computers & Industrial Engineering 103 (2017) 262–270
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Computers & Industrial Engineering

journal homepage: www.elsevier .com/ locate/caie
Using risk sharing contracts for supply chain risk mitigation: A
buyer-supplier power and dependence perspective
⇑ Corresponding author.
E-mail address: A.Ghadge@hw.ac.uk (A. Ghadge).

http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2016.11.034
0360-8352/ 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Abhijeet Ghadge a,⇑, Samir Dani b, Ritesh Ojha c, Nigel Caldwell a
a Logistics Research Centre, School of Social Sciences, Heriot Watt University, Edinburgh, UK
bUniversity of Huddersfield Business School, University of Huddersfield, UK
cDepartment of Industrial and Systems Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, India

a r t i c l e i n f o
Article history:
Received 3 December 2015
Received in revised form 27 October 2016
Accepted 28 November 2016
Available online 30 November 2016

Keywords:
Buyer-supplier relationships
Risk sharing contracts
Power and dependence
Supply chain risk management
a b s t r a c t

The paper aims to understand buyer-supplier power and dependence scenarios following a risk sharing
contract. The study develops a supply chain risk sharing contract to mitigate demand uncertainty and
price volatility related risks in a globalised business environment. An integer programming model is
developed and analysed following an automotive case study to generate insights into buyer-supplier rela-
tionships. Multiple buyer-supplier power and dependence scenarios are considered to reflect the possible
leverages involved in the decision-making. The situational strength evaluated through buyer-supplier
power and dependence illuminates the inherent complexity in contract negotiation. Thus there is an evi-
dent need to develop risk sharing contracts for mitigating global risks. The developed relationship frame-
work and risk sharing contract model are expected to help SC managers in better understanding
behavioural aspects during contract negotiations. The risk sharing contract model proposed here also
contributes to a potentially novel perspective on existing theory in buyer-supplier power and depen-
dence by providing a relational perspective on the dynamics of supply chain design and collaboration.

 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction

The rise of global markets and therefore global competition has
forced today’s supply chains to change their risk management
strategies. Risk mitigation is becoming a primary motive behind
all contractual agreements and is believed to be beneficial for the
complete supply chain network (Xiao & Yang, 2009). Flexibility
in accommodating demand fluctuation and responsiveness to price
volatility are two key requirements of current supply chain man-
agement practices. In order to manage uncertainties in demand
and pricing, supply chains need to develop robust contractual
mechanisms especially for highly configured products in automo-
tive, aerospace, electronics and other heavy industries. Typically,
Build-To-Order (BTO) or Make-To-Order (MTO) products are char-
acterised by uncertain demand, long lead times and fluctuating
purchase costs (Wang & Tsao, 2006). BTO or MTO approaches have
been actively pursued by companies like Dell Computers, BMW,
IBM, HP, and Compaq to manage varying patterns of demand
(Ghiassi & Spera, 2003; Gunasekaran & Ngai, 2005; Hsu & Wang,
2004). Demand uncertainty incurs a risk cost to the supplier
whereas price volatility incurs a risk cost to the buyer. Global mar-
kets with global competition magnify the risks of demand fluctua-
tion and price volatility; such uncertainty means supply chains
demand additional risk mitigation assurances through the use of
different control mechanisms such as contracts or legal agree-
ments (Laeequddin, Waheed, & Sahay, 2009).

Contractual negotiations with supply chain partners are vital to
establish visibility and risk control through agreed contractual pro-
cesses to manage fluctuations in demand and price volatility
(Gunasekaran & Ngai, 2005). Supply chain contractual processes
that address demand uncertainty like buyback, quantity flexibility,
revenue sharing, profit sharing and full return have been discussed
in the literature (e.g. Cachon & Lariviere, 2005; Emmons & Gilbert,
1998; Jeong, 2012; Tsay & Lovejoy, 1999). However, the area of
supply chain contracts under price uncertainty (e.g. Li & Kouvelis,
1999) has attracted less academic attention. The Supply Chain
(SC) contractual processes listed earlier all address improving the
efficiency of a SC network, but do not usually actively address
the risk mitigation. Supply chain contracts could offer robust
strategies to increase SC resilience through mitigating uncertain-
ties or risks in addition to making a SC more efficient (Tang, 2006).

Researchers often utilise the classic newsvendor problem when
modelling supply chain contracts (e.g. Cheng, 2011; Lariviere &
Porteus, 2001; Lau, Lau, & Wang, 2008), but in this study the
researchers’ take a pragmatic approach, testing the SC risk sharing



A. Ghadge et al. / Computers & Industrial Engineering 103 (2017) 262–270 263
contract model in an industry setting. Supply chain contracts
developed through the newsvendor problem are most commonly
based on a risk neutrality assumption (Wang & Webster, 2009).
However, in a stochastic market environment risks such as lost
sales, delivery unreliability and obsolesce significantly affect all
SC stakeholders. Relationship and situational strength (power)
are key issues within any SC as stakeholders use power and dom-
inance to define the rules of the collaborative partnership (Kehoe,
Dani, Sharifi, Burns, & Backhouse, 2007). Opportunistic behaviour,
while making decisions, has a severe effect on SC and is receiving
increasing attention in supply chain design (Craighead,
Blackhurst, Rungtusanatham, & Handfield, 2007; Ellis, Henry, &
Shockley, 2010; Sodhi, Son, & Tang, 2012). In the next section the
literature is utilized to identify satisfaction level and dominance
level as two parameters used to capture negotiating SC dynamics
under conditions of buyer-supplier power and dependence.

In summary, through a risk sharing contract, this study
attempts to illuminate the behavioural aspects of supplier and
buyer that stem from the inevitability of issues of power and
dependence in supply chain contract negotiations. Studies on flex-
ibility contracts focusing on buyer’s ordering behaviour, when
faced with a static market demand are evident (e.g. Bassok &
Anupindi, 2008; Lian & Deshmukh, 2009). Nonetheless, there exists
a research gap in studying risk sharing contracts under dynamic
market requirements that include a buyer-supplier relational per-
spective. Furthermore, there is limited literature on supply chain
contracts under the combined effects of demand uncertainly and
price volatility.

Following this introduction, Section 2 reviews extant literature
in two parts, firstly introducing work on supply chain risk and
uncertainty, then narrowing down to assemble the arguments
made in the literature for risk sharing contracts. A second section
of literature review captures the views on power and dependence
issues inherent in buyer-supplier relationships. Section 3 intro-
duces a conceptual framework to define the objective and to limit
the scope of the research to the area of buyer-supplier indepen-
dence. Section 4 presents a risk sharing contract model, developed
by formulating a mathematical problem in order to obtain the opti-
mum contract quantity for mitigating the combined risk of
demand fluctuation and price volatility in a SC. Section 5 analyses
the risk sharing contract model, the results are compared with two
different solution approaches to studying the situational strength
of SC stakeholders. Finally, in Section 6, conclusions, the impor-
tance of a risk sharing contract as a tool to mitigate supply chain
disruption risk and the need for further research in this area is reit-
erated and additional managerial implications offered for those
responsible for managing risks in a globalised economy.
2. Literature review

2.1. Supply chain risk and uncertainty

Due to increasing globalisation, practitioners and researchers
are paying more attention to Supply Chain Risk Management
(SCRM) (Ghadge, Dani, & Kalawsky, 2012; Manuj & Mentzer,
2008). This heightened level of attention is evident from several lit-
erature reviews on supply chain risks and uncertainty (e.g.
Natarajarathinam, Capar, & Narayanan, 2009; Rao & Goldsby,
2009; Tang & Musa, 2011; Simangunsong, Hendry, & Stevenson,
2012; Sawik, 2016). It is a broad topic that encompasses various
forms of supply chain risk, including financial and operational risks
(Snyder et al., 2016). SCRM has become a modern challenge
because of shorter product life cycles, increased uncertainties,
etc. (Christopher & Lee, 2004). Furthermore, globalisation increases
supply chain complexity and increases the impact of disruptions
(Christopher and Towill, 2002) and general vulnerability to risks
(e.g. globalisation related activities such as on-shoring, off-
shoring, complex outsourcing, and increased mergers) (Bakshi &
Kleindorfer, 2009). Yu and Goh (2014) investigate the twin effects
of SC visibility and risk on SC performance. Tang (2006) highlights
the necessity of new approaches to mitigate vulnerable risks and
minimise potential losses.

Risk and uncertainty are two different terms that are often used
interchangeably in the academic literature. However, risk can be
measured unlike uncertainty (Knight, 1921). Several academic def-
initions of risk and uncertainty co-exist. Most theorists have
defined risk as a negative outcome. Lowrance (1980) notes that,
the term risk means the probability and impact of uncertain fac-
tors. Rowe (1980) defines risk as the probability of realizing nega-
tive consequences from uncertainties. Risk has been defined as a
measure of the probability and severity of adverse effects
(Claypool, Norman, & Needy, 2014). From a supply chain perspec-
tive, risk is associated with the negative consequences of uncer-
tainty within the SC or network (Christopher & Lee, 2004;
Wagner & Bode, 2006). Supply chain risk has been defined as
purely negative consequence within information, financial and
material flows (Wagner & Bode, 2008). Supply chain risk sources
are unpredictable variables within an organization, network or
environment. These risks exist because of uncertainty about future
risk events, which can appear at any point in time in the supply
chain (Aqlan & Lam, 2016).

Risk mitigation and control strategies are classified into two
approaches: proactive and reactive (Ghadge, Dani, Chester, &
Kalawsky, 2013). Adopting an effective risk management strategy
based on global supply chain environment is becoming increas-
ingly challenging (Christopher & Towill, 2001; Manuj & Mentzer,
2008). Fahimnia, Tang, Davarzani, and Sarkis (2015) presents a sys-
tematic review of the quantitative and analytical models for
managing SC risks. SC strategies like dual/multiple sourcing, post-
ponement, Vendor-Managed Inventory, long-term contracts, sup-
plier collaboration and development are being used not only to
improve overall SC performance, but also as risk mitigation strate-
gies as evidenced through the literature. Chen, Sohal, and Prajogo
(2013) presented a collaborative approach for the mitigation of
SC operational risks by focusing on supply and demand risks. In a
complex SC network there is an imperative to examine the flexibil-
ity and uncertainty to mitigate risks. Flexibility provides virtual
capacity and is one of the most effective measures to mitigate sup-
ply chain risks (Aqlan & Lam, 2016). The benefits of flexibility to
the buyer increase as uncertainty increases (Karakaya & Bakal,
2013). SC risk mitigation strategies should be amalgamated with
the top managerial decision making processes to alleviate supply
chain risks and improve the robustness of supply chains (Rajesh
& Ravi, 2015). Borodin, Bourtembourg, Hnaien, and Labadie
(2016) provides an overview of the latest advances in the applica-
tion of ORmethodologies to handling uncertainty occurring in Sup-
ply chains.

2.1.1. Risk sharing contracts
A SC contract is a coordination mechanism to integrate SC part-

ners and therefore benefit from improved operational perfor-
mance. Supply chain contracts have been studied extensively in
the context of traditional supply chains (Knoblich, Heavey, &
Williams, 2015). Research suggests that SC contract analysis can
improve both operational efficiency and SC coordination (Tang,
2006). Demand and pricing uncertainties are associated with many
causes; For example, exchange rate movements, uncertainty of
supply and demand, political turmoil, environmental influences
and the changing risk preferences of consumers (Fotopoulos, Hu,
& Munson, 2008). Given such lack of visibility over future SC dis-
ruptions, risk-sharing contracts are one of the means of risk mitiga-



264 A. Ghadge et al. / Computers & Industrial Engineering 103 (2017) 262–270
tion (Wakolbinger & Cruz, 2011). Uncertainties in demand and
pricing, in particular, result in a situation where both buyer and
supplier face the risk of shortages, delays and financial losses.
Fang and Shou (2015) examine how levels of competitive intensity
and supply uncertainty, affect the equilibrium decisions of order
quantity and contract sharing. Risk sharing partnerships can lead
to substantial benefits for the SC network (Buzacott & Peng,
2012). Given the difficulties of demand forecasting environments
along with the problems of fluctuating prices of products in global
markets, risk sharing contracts are increasingly expected to pro-
vide one form of trade-off solution for these demand and pricing
uncertainties.
Fig. 1. Buyer-supplier relationship framework (Adapted from Kraljic (1983) and
Cox et al. (2002)).
2.2. Buyer-supplier power and dependence

Supply chain strategies must examine the role and contribution
of long term partnerships among buyers and suppliers
(Kirytopoulos, Leopoulos, Mavrotas, & Voulgaridou, 2010). Buyer-
supplier power and interdependence is central to any contractual
agreement (Cox, Ireland, Lonsdale, Sanderson, and Watson
(2002)). There is an emerging agenda in the SCM literature that
is focusing on power and dependence from a SC stakeholder’s per-
spective (e.g. Caniels & Gelderman, 2007; Doran, Thomas, &
Caldwell, 2005; Karabati & Sayin, 2008; Kheljani, Ghodsypour, &
O’Brien, 2009; Liu, Huang, Luo, & Zhao, 2012; Sanders, 2008;
Tomas, Hult, Ketchen, & Chabowski, 2007). Strategic partnering is
an increasingly widespread approach for buyers and suppliers
(Blancero & Ellram, 1997). Porter’s classic model (1985) supports
the view that the buyers and suppliers will always try to gain as
much advantage through their relationship. Kraljic’s Portfolio
Purchasing Model (1983) classified a firm’s purchased intermedi-
ate products into four categories on the basis of the ‘profit impact’
(based on purchased quantity, percentage of total cost, impact on
product quality and expected business growth) and supply risk
(based on supplier availability, make-or-buy options and mitigat-
ing possibilities). In recent times, many adaptations and refine-
ments to Kraljic’s model have led to alternative portfolio models
using other classifications/dimensions (Bensaou, 1999; Olsen &
Ellram, 1997). However, there is a fundamental assumption under-
pinning all such portfolio models; the occurrence of differences in
the power and dependency between a buyer and a supplier (Cox
et al., 2002; Dubois & Pedersen, 2002).

Whilst such supply portfolio models suggest several SC strate-
gies for every product category, the conditions determining the
choice for a specific buying strategy has remained a research issue
(Gelderman & Van Weele, 2003). Successive researchers have
adapted Kraljic’s purchasing portfolio model; for situational diffi-
culty in purchasing (Olsen & Ellram, 1997), balancing power
(Kumar, 1996) and supply risk (Doran et al., 2005). Dani, Burns,
and Backhouse (2005) studied buyer-supplier behaviour in power
and dependence scenarios to predict what will promote the high-
est level of dependency. Therefore, there is abundant evidence in
extant literature on how purchasing strategies can be used to char-
acterize the relationship between the various quadrants of com-
bined Kraljic and Cox model (see Fig. 1) and the power-
dependence balance in buyer-supplier coordination (Caniels &
Gelderman, 2007; Saccani & Perona, 2007; Van Weele, 2000).
3. Conceptual development

In order to meet the objective of developing a model capable of
representing a contract for mitigating the risks associated with
demand fluctuation and price uncertainty. In order to build on
how the literature review identified the way that the interconnect-
edness of globalised economic activity magnifies risks, it was nec-
essary to select a sample case organization with recurrent global
exposure. A leading automotive manufacturer with component
suppliers distributed around the globe was identified as fulfilling
the research design requirements. As the focal (hierarchical) firm
in its automotive SC this organization also met the second objec-
tive of this research in terms of demonstrating and offering access
to issues of power and dependency (a relational perspective on the
dynamics of SC collaboration) stemming from its tiers of compliant
suppliers. Thus the proposed analytical model for supply contract
risk sharing includes a buyer-supplier relationship framework
adapted from the literature and situational strength between
stakeholders of the SC network (i.e. the focal firm and its globally
distributed suppliers).

Cox et al. (2002) developed a framework for examining poten-
tial buyer supplier relationships based on relative utility of scarcity
of resources. A buyer-supplier relationship is influenced by the
importance of business relationships and the satisfaction of each
party (Sinclair, Hunter, & Beumont, 1996). Fig. 1 shows a buyer-
supplier relationship framework adapted from Kraljic’s model
combined with Cox’s model on buyer-supplier business relation-
ship and satisfaction level. In the first quadrant, non-critical prod-
ucts demand efficient processing, product standardization, order
variety and volume (Gelderman & Van Weele, 2003). They have
relatively low financial value and purchasing risk. The buyer as
well as supplier will independently satisfy their supply and
demand requirements for such products. Due to the non-critical
nature of the products, the buyer does not have to depend on
one particular supplier. Similarly, a supplier satisfies the orders
by market hedging on available volume and variety for his product.
Leverage products can be outsourced from multiple suppliers.
These products account for a large share of the end product’s cost
price with a relatively low supply risk (Caniels & Gelderman, 2007).
For leverage products, the buyer has the edge over the supplier due
to the easy availability of the product. A buyer in this quadrant
meets quantity requirements by exploiting wide-spread availabil-
ity through for instance tendering, target pricing and product sub-
stitution. Leverage products have low value (low supply risk) and
are ordered frequently under a situation of buyer dominance. For
bottleneck products, suppliers have the dominant power position
due to the product having relatively low financial impact, but high
supply risk. A buyer usually tries to ensure a constant supply by
maintaining high stocks rather than providing quantity flexibility
to the supplier. Due to supplier dominance in this quadrant, the
buyer manages its inventory exposure through safety stock and
product differentiation strategies. For the buyer, strategic compo-



A. Ghadge et al. / Computers & Industrial Engineering 103 (2017) 262–270 265
nents suggest the need for enhanced collaboration with the sup-
plier due to high product value and high supply risk. It seems this
interest in a long term relationship is reciprocal, as whilst a buyer
needs quantity flexibility the supplier expects order commitment
for the product, hence, both seek a long term relationship through
contractual agreements. Risk sharing contracts play an important
role in this quadrant of satisfaction and dominance level. As this
forth quadrant is driven by interdependence it meets the objective
of offering a context where mutuality is a prime objective and
hence risk sharing contracts are relevant. Hence in this study a
boundary is placed (limited to forth quadrant) by restricting the
scope of this research to conditions where mutual buyer supplier
dependency inform contracting for a new risk sharing supply chain
contract to mitigate demand and price flexibility.

The focal automotive manufacturing firm producing variety of
truck models including Fork-lift trucks was selected to meet the
study’s research design requirements. The firm employed a Quan-
tity Flexibility (QF) contract to mitigate high demand uncertainty,
but were faced with high procurement costs due to global eco-
nomic fluctuations. In the QF contract, the supplier charges the
buyer a fixed unit wholesale cost with a limited flexibility for
adjusting his initial order quantity without any penalty (Shi &
Chen, 2007). The QF contract is a coordination tool that provides
an opportunity to the buyer to revise its initial order or forecast
and specifies upper and lower bounds (usually as percentages of
the initial order) on the final order quantity (Karakaya & Bakal,
2013). Knoblich et al. (2015) focussed on the concept of quantity
flexibility in the context of different customer forecast demand
behaviour. In this study, this fundamental concept of a QF contract
is utilized to develop the risk sharing contract by incorporating a
high price uncertainty parameter to the problem. As seen in
Fig. 2, buyback and/or revenue sharing contracts are suitable for
low price uncertainty to accommodate demand volatility. This
becomes complex when price volatility is high for strategic compo-
nents; then the supplier and buyer have to negotiate for the whole-
sale cost based on the ordering quantity with an option to adjust
the demand. Price volatility driven by political instability, global
sourcing and government sanctions has been found to significantly
impact both stakeholders in the SC (Davarzani, Zanjirani Farahani,
& Rahmandad, 2015). The risk sharing contract will mitigate sup-
ply chain risks related to the combined effect of demand uncer-
tainty and price volatility. In a QF, buyback or revenue sharing
contract, the partners share some of the inventory and stock-out
burden (Arshinder & Deshmukh, 2007); the buyer is expected to
make a commitment to reserve the order quantity based on the
forecasted demand. In return, the supplier provides the buyer the
flexibility to vary the ordered quantity within certain agreed limits
(Wang & Tsao, 2006). A risk sharing contract is different to the QF
contract as it incorporates not just quantity flexibility but also
Fig. 2. Demand and price flexibility in supply chain: Contract perspective.
includes a price flexibility option (to mitigate price volatility); by
negotiating the costs for the committed quantity through contract
negotiation.

A risk sharing contract incorporates the price flexibility factor in
terms of wholesale and penalty costs for ordering under or over the
committed quantity. In this type of contract, two scenarios are
expected where the buyer may increase or decrease the order
quantity after observing expected or realized demand fluctuations.
If only upward adjustment is allowed, then the buyer will place a
conservative initial order by trying to ‘transfer the risk’ to the sup-
plier by forcing him to maintain high inventory. This opportunistic
behaviour of the buyer unwittingly tends to increase price volatil-
ity. On the other hand, if only downward adjustment is allowed,
the buyer will make a generous initial order or make an aggressive
commitment and try to ‘averse the risk’ of a demand shortage, lead-
ing to a bullwhip effect in the SC. Bidirectional adjustment con-
tracts should be considered for supply chain performance (Wang
& Tsao, 2006). Under the above two scenario’s, the risk sharing
contract is expected to provide the leverage to both the stakehold-
ers by providing the most accurate demand without much fluctu-
ation in procurement costs. This negotiated coordination can
provide appropriate incentives to the buyer as well as the supplier
by sharing the risk of demand uncertainty and price volatility.
4. Risk sharing contractual model

4.1. Model development

Consider a buyer facing varying procurement costs over a finite
horizon for strategic components required in product assembly.
The global supplier at the same time is facing demand uncertainty
due to the typical nature of industries where demand is variable
and unpredictable. The objective of the risk sharing contract in
such a case would be to provide a stable procurement cost for
the buyer and a committed order quantity for the supplier. This
can only be achieved by identifying an appropriate contract quan-
tity for the SC profit maximization. The contract model hence
negotiates for a contractual ‘optimal quantity’ based on three dis-
tinct costs of the component namely quoted price, wholesale cost
and penalty cost. The sensitivity of the model is dependent on
two financial inputs, the wholesale cost for a minimum committed
quantity and the penalty cost for not ordering the minimum com-
mitted quantity. Both these costs are based on the quoted price
provided by the supplier. The model identifies the expected order-
ing quantity for the period by forecasting demand based on past
orders. The negotiated contract costs i.e., wholesale cost and pen-
alty cost are flexible and are determined based on the power and
dependence relationship between buyer and supplier. Thus, the
model is negotiated based on the quoted price provided by the
supplier as a primary input parameter which later determines opti-
mal quantity, wholesale cost and penalty cost for the contract.
Demand predictability, physical efficiency and market responsive-
ness are important factors for supply chain management (Fisher,
1997). Assuming these conditions in a supply chain, the research
examines decision making for the optimum contract quantity to
balance risk between buyer and supplier. In the later part of this
paper, we also study the implications of power and dependence
on negotiated optimum quantity for the risk sharing contract.
4.2. Model formulation

The following assumptions are made before formulating the
Integer Programming (IP) model for the risk sharing contract.



266 A. Ghadge et al. / Computers & Industrial Engineering 103 (2017) 262–270
 The ordering cost and holding cost are assumed to be constant
during contract negotiation.

 The contract quantity always lies between the minimum and
maximum demand quantity anticipated by the buyer over the
contract horizon.

Considering the above assumptions, the objective of the model
is formulated to minimise the total purchase cost for the buyer and
maximise the commitment quantity for the supplier. The decision
variables used in the model are as follows:

Qi = Forecasted demand quantity for ith period in the contract
horizon

Qmin = Minimum expected demand in a contract horizon
Qmax = Maximum expected demand in contract horizon
Ce = Quoted price provided by the supplier
Cq = Negotiated wholesale cost for contract quantity
Cn = Negotiated penalty cost for under-ordered quantity
a = Ratio of negotiated wholesale cost to quoted price
b = Ratio of negotiated penalty cost to quoted price
Q = Negotiated initial order quantity

The range for quantity variation is decided by the buyer and sup-
plier based on Qmin and Qmax predicted from the forecasted demand
for the contract horizon. The flexibility option is utilized by the
buyer by signing a contract for Q units with the flexibility to change
the initial order Q to actual order of q units by a factor l, such that
(1  l) Q < q < (1 + l) Q. The objective function for minimizing total
purchase cost, Z for optimal commitment quantity Q⁄ is formulated
as IP model is given below:

X12
Z ¼ 

xi½Q  Cq þ ðQi  QÞ  Ce þ yi½ i  Cq þ ðQ  QiÞ 


Q Cn
i¼1

ð4:1Þ

Qmin 6 Qi 6 Qmax ð4:2Þ
Cq ¼ a  Ce ð4:3Þ
Cn ¼ b  Ce ð4:4Þ
a ¼ f ðQÞ ð4:5Þ
b ¼ f ðQÞ ð4:6Þ


xi ¼

1; if Q i > Q ð4:7Þ
0; otherwise


yi ¼

1; if Q i < Q ð4:8Þ
0; otherwise

xi þ yi ¼ 1; xi; yi 2 ð0;1Þ ð4:9Þ
Q ;Cq;Cn P 0 ð4:10Þ

In the objective function (Eq. (4.1)) we consider a yearly con-
tract. There will be either over ordering or under ordering by the
buyer with respect to the committed ‘contract quantity’ for every
ith period (month). The first section in Eq. (4.1) considers the pur-
chase cost for the over ordered quantity for ith period where the
equation applies appropriate wholesale cost for contract quantity
and a quoted price for units more than contract quantity. Simi-
larly, the second part considers the under ordered purchase cost
for ith period where the under ordered quantity is still purchased
at wholesale cost with an additional penalty for the unordered
quantity. For every ith period, either of the two will be possible
and binary function (Eqs. (4.7), (4.8), (4.9)) caters to this require-
ment along with other supporting constraints for non-negativity
requirements (Eq. (4.10)). Summation of purchase cost for i peri-
ods provides the minimum total purchase cost for the contract
horizon by solving IP problem for optimal contract quantity Q⁄.
The contract horizon is considered to be a 12-month period for
modelling purpose but can be varied on the basis of the nature
and dependability of the industry. The above mathematical
formulation provides an optimal solution for both the stakehold-
ers through contract negotiation influenced by power and
dependence.
5. Analysis and findings

The focal automotive manufacturing company producing Fork-
lift trucks, with a global supply base selected for testing the devel-
oped model was aware of the problems they had faced during
implementation of an earlier QF contract. Sourcing from global
suppliers for vital components led to exposure to risks primarily
associated with heavy price fluctuations and supply (as well as
demand) uncertainty. Case company SC managers were
approached to study their strategic outsourcing activity; data
was then collected from primary sources of information like pur-
chase orders, archival documents, internal presentations and other
official purchase documents. After collecting relevant data, the
analysis was conducted by testing the proposed contract model
in two parts. Initially, forecasting techniques were used to predict
the expected demand quantity for future contract horizons and
secondly, this forecasted data was utilized for identifying the opti-
mal quantity for a risk sharing contract.

5.1. Demand forecasting

Demand forecasting plays an important role in managing sup-
ply chains due to uncertainty in the demand (Gunasekaran &
Ngai, 2009). Different forecasting methods are discussed in the lit-
erature to predict the demand quantity (Chen, Ryan, & Simchi-Levi,
2000; Miyaoka & Kopczak, 2000). The most commonly used
approach for periodic forecasting is the Holt–Winters exponential
smoothing approach. The demand for the next rolling horizon is
forecast based on demand observed in the previous horizon. The
Holt-Winters model used in this section of the study is based on
three smoothing factors-level, trend and seasonality (Winters,
1960).

Past 3-year demand data provided by the company was fed into
the forecasting model. Fig. 3 shows the overlapping of actual
demand data with the forecasted data in the central region of the
graph. This is to check the validity of the forecasted data. Accuracy
of the forecast is checked using ‘tracking signal’ value and it is
found to be 0.147, which is comparatively very small and within
the acceptable limits for an accurate forecast, since the maximum
limit for acceptability of forecasted value is 4 (Jacobs, William,
Whybark, & Vollmann, 2010). The forecasted vs. actual demand
overlaps providing confidence in the anticipated demand quantity
for the contract horizon. The forecasted demand data is now ready
for being utilized in the contract model to find the optimum quan-
tity in a contract horizon.

5.2. Solution and comparison

The IP problem was formulated and solved in a widely used
commercial optimization solver–LINGO as shown in Fig. 4. Two dif-



A. Ghadge et al. / Computers & Industrial Engineering 103 (2017) 262–270 267

Fig. 3. Time series demand forecasting for periods in contract horizon.

Fig. 4. Snapshot: IP formulation in optimization solver.
ferent dimensions were considered to capture the intricacies
related to buyer-supplier power and dependence on the proposed
risk sharing contract model. Two cases are typically observed dur-
ing any contract negotiations and would provide us with insights
into the associated situational strength. While negotiating the con-
tract, buyer and supplier may consider the cost of the component
to be independent of the contract quantity commitment. Hence
in case 1, we analyse the model with an assumption that the buyer
and supplier are negotiating the wholesale and penalty costs inde-
pendent of the quantity commitment (a and b– f Q). In case 2, the
wholesale and penalty costs are negotiated based on the commit-
ted quantity ordered (a and b = fQ).
Case 1: a and b independent of quantity ordered {a and
b– f(Q)}

Here, wholesale cost and penalty cost are assumed to be inde-
pendent of the quantity ordered and analysed for the results. Since
the ordering quantity is calculated by varying a (0.75 6 a 6 1) and
b (0 6 b 6 0.25) independently, 25 different combinations of a and
b provide several optimal quantity solutions as seen in Fig. 5. It is
observed that the lower wholesale cost (a) is expected to provide
the supplier with highest committed contract (optimal) quantity.
Similarly, when we compare the total purchase cost with respect
to these different combinations of a and b; it is observed that,



268 A. Ghadge et al. / Computers & Industrial Engineering 103 (2017) 262–270

140 Table 1
Local optimal solutions when a and b = f(Q).

120
100 Wholesale price Penalty cost Purchase Order quantity,

Beta=0.05 factor, a factor, b cost, Z Q⁄

Optimal 80 Beta=0.10
Quantity Beta=0.15 0.91 0.112 128552.8 112

60 Beta=0.20 0.87 0.07 123315.2 121

40 Beta=0.25 0.85 0.05 119664.8 127
0.8 0 111360.0 140

20
0

0.75 0.8 0.85 0.9 0.95
α

Fig. 5. Optimal quantity for various combinations of a and b.
the buyer can actually minimise total purchase cost by committing
for a higher contract quantity as seen in Fig. 6. In such a case, the
buyer may over-order the quantity leading to a bullwhip effect,
but this essentially shares the risk of the price volatility. On the
other side, higher commitment of quantity shares the risk of
demand fluctuation for the supplier. The overall effect of change
in total purchase cost for lower values of a and for all values of b
is significantly less and is beneficial for the buyer as well as the
supplier. The quoted price paid for ordering more than the contract
quantity is not influenced by the penalty cost paid for ordering less
than the contract quantity, which is yet another significant finding.
This also infers that the wholesale cost plays a major role in any
contract negotiation, even if the penalty cost is associated in the
contract.

The dividing line shown in Fig. 6 shows the dominating scenar-
ios for two prominent stakeholders in purchasing commonly
observed in forth quadrant (Fig. 1). This also provides buyer and
supplier with their optimal contract zones for executing risk shar-
ing supply chain contracts. The left half (in Fig. 6) is dominated by
supplier power as it tries to bring down the wholesale cost to min-
imise their purchase cost, whereas the right half is dominated by
buyer power trying to maximise their own profit by achieving a
higher commitment quantity. This is a commonly observed phe-
nomenon in SCM when demand is certain and independent of cost.

Case 2: When a and b are dependent on quantity ordered {a and
b = f(Q)}.

In this case a and b are considered to be dependent on the com-
mitted quantity. This is a typical scenario where the negotiations
are purely based on average order quantity (i.e. higher the average
quantity order higher the wholesale price). The quantity ordered Q
is evaluated by varying a (1P aP 0.75) and b (0 6 b 6 0.25) val-
ues to suit best combinations for the optimal quantity. The model
predicts local optimal solutions for different combinations of a and
b. The local optimal solutions obtained for the case studied are pre-
sented in Table 1.
Fig. 6. Purchase cost versus a for varying b.
Table 1 shows four different local optimal solutions obtained for
the contract quantity. The values presented above are specific to
the test model and could vary from contract to contract. Neverthe-
less, the results give a transparent view of optimum quantity with
total purchase cost for best combinations of a and b. For a buyer
this helps in understanding the best possible wholesale price and
penalty cost combination within a specific demand range. Here
the global optimum solution is not obtained as this can be achieved
by paying the lowest possible wholesale cost without any penalty
cost for the contract quantity. But, this is possible only in the third
quadrant where the buyer is dominant during contract negotia-
tions. The supplier would ask for the maximum commitment
quantity at the quoted price, if the supplier were dominant in this
quadrant. The impact of quantity ordered on negotiated costs is an
important consideration for the contract negotiation as it provides
both stakeholders with best combination of a and b, unlike two
distinctive operability zones as in case I.

6. Conclusion

The research proposes a risk sharing contract to distribute the
risk of demand uncertainty and price volatility among different
SC stakeholders. The situational strength evaluated under buyer-
supplier power and dependence following two cases illuminates
the inherent complexity in contracting. The research develops a
risk sharing contract in a SC environment ideal for studying strate-
gic/vital components exposed to the combined risk of demand
uncertainty and price volatility. The proposed contract provides
directions for building long term supply chain contracts for miti-
gating known as well as unknown risks. The model would be suited
to industries such as automobile, aerospace, electronics and com-
puter manufacturing where product costs are high, components
are sourced globally and there is highly uncertain demand due to
increased completion. Although the scope of research was limited
to the forth quadrant of the buyer-supplier relationship frame-
work, the contract is believed to be beneficial for any satisfaction
and dependence level in the matrix. The risk sharing contract
model proposed here contributes to a potentially novel perspective
on existing theory in buyer-supplier power and dependence by
providing a relational perspective on the dynamics of supply chain
design and collaboration. The developed relationship framework
and risk sharing contract model are expected to help SC managers
in better understanding behavioural aspects during contract nego-
tiations. This study may also encourage the SCRM community to
consider similar strategic contracts as a possible long term risk
mitigation strategy. Increasing inter-dependence through the
development of strategic alliances with SC partners is necessary
due to the increased uncertainties and risks of a globalised busi-
ness world. A risk sharing contract is one such robust risk mitiga-
tion strategy for long-term profitability in SCM.

The SC contract model is validated through a single case com-
pany. Hence, further research is necessary to check the robustness
of the model by testing it across different industry setting. Buyer-
supplier relationships captured in the paper is limited and further
research into the bounded rationality in SC risk sharing contracts is
needed. The future supply chains are expected to be driven by the



A. Ghadge et al. / Computers & Industrial Engineering 103 (2017) 262–270 269
sustainability concerns (Montabon, Pagell, & Wu, 2016; Wilhelm,
Blome, Bhakoo, & Paulraj, 2016). The research should address the
role risk sharing contracts can play specifically in meeting sustain-
ability concerns, e.g. with social (co-ordination), economic (net-
work profitability) and environmental (inventory obsolesce)
parameters.

References

Aqlan, F., & Lam, S. S. (2016). Supply chain optimization under risk and uncertainty:
A case study for high-end server manufacturing. Computers & Industrial
Engineering, 93, 78–87.

Arshinder, K. A., & Deshmukh, S. G. (2007). Coordination in supply chains: an
evaluation using fuzzy logic. Production Planning and Control, 18(5), 420–435.

Bakshi, N., & Kleindorfer, P. (2009). Co-opetition and investment for supply-chain
resilience. Production and Operations Management, 18(6), 583–603.

Bassok, Y., & Anupindi, R. (2008). Analysis of supply contracts with forecasts and
flexibility. Naval Research Logistics, 55, 459–477.

Bensaou, B. M. (1999). Portfolios of buyer-supplier relationships. Sloan Management
Review, 40(4), 35–44.

Blancero, D., & Ellram, L. (1997). Strategic supplier partnering: A psychological
contract perspective. International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics
Management, 27(9/10), 616–629.

Borodin, V., Bourtembourg, J., Hnaien, F., & Labadie, N. (2016). Handling uncertainty
in agricultural supply chain management: A state of the art. European Journal of
Operational Research, 254(2), 348–359.

Buzacott, J. A., & Peng, H. S. (2012). Contract design for risk sharing partnerships in
manufacturing. European Journal of Operational Research, 218(3), 656–666.

Cachon, G. P., & Lariviere, M. A. (2005). Supply chain coordination with revenue-
sharing contracts: Strengths and limitations. Management Science, 51(1), 30–44.

Caniels, M. C. J., & Gelderman, C. J. (2007). Power and interdependence in buyer
supplier relationships: A purchasing portfolio approach. Industrial Marketing
Management, 36, 219–229.

Chen, Y. F., Ryan, J. K., & Simchi-Levi, D. (2000). The impact of exponential
smoothing forecasts on the bullwhip effect. Naval Research Logistics, 47(4),
269–286.

Chen, J., Sohal, A., & Prajogo, D. (2013). Supply chain operational risk mitigation: A
collaborative approach. International Journal of Production Research, 51(7),
2186–2199.

Cheng, J. H. (2011). Inter-organizational relationships and information sharing in
supply chains. International Journal of Information Management, 31(4), 374–384.

Christopher, M., & Lee, H. (2004). Mitigating supply chain risk through improved
confidence. International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics Management,
34(5), 388–396.

Christopher, M., & Towill, D. (2001). An integrated model for the design of agile
supply chains. International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics
Management, 31(4), 235–246.

Christopher, M., & Towill, D. R. (2002). Developing market specific supply chain
strategies. International Journal of Logistics Management, 13(1), 1–14.

Claypool, E., Norman, B. A., & Needy, K. L. (2014). Modeling risk in a design for
supply chain problem. Computers & Industrial Engineering, 78, 44–54.

Cox, A., Ireland, P., Lonsdale, C., Sanderson, J., & Watson, G. (2002). Supply chains,
markets and power: Mapping buyer and supplier power regimes. London, UK:
Routledge.

Craighead, C. W., Blackhurst, J., Rungtusanatham, M. J., & Handfield, R. B. (2007). The
severity of supply chain disruptions: Design characteristics and mitigation
capabilities. Decision Sciences, 38(1), 131–156.

Dani, S., Burns, N. D., & Backhouse, C. J. (2005). Buyer-supplier behaviour in
electronic reverse auctions: A relationships perspective. International Journal of
Services and Operations Management, 1(1), 22–34.

Davarzani, H., Zanjirani Farahani, R., & Rahmandad, H. (2015). Understanding
econo-political risks: Impact of sanctions on an automotive supply chain.
International Journal of Operations & Production Management, 35(11),
1567–1591.

Doran, D., Thomas, P., & Caldwell, N. (2005). Examining buyer-supplier relationships
within a service sector context. Supply Chain Management: An International
Journal, 10(4), 272–277.

Dubois, A., & Pedersen, A. C. (2002). Why relationships do not fit into purchasing
portfolio models - A comparison between the portfolio and industrial network
approaches. European Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management, 8(1), 35–42.

Ellis, S. C., Henry, R. M., & Shockley, J. (2010). Buyer perceptions of supply disruption
risk: A behavioural view and empirical assessment. Journal of Operations
Management, 28(1), 34–46.

Emmons, H., & Gilbert, S. (1998). Returns policies in pricing and inventory decisions
for catalogue goods. Management Science, 44(2), 276–283.

Fahimnia, B., Tang, C. S., Davarzani, H., & Sarkis, J. (2015). Quantitative models for
managing supply chain risks: A review. European Journal of Operational Research,
247(1), 1–15.

Fang, Y., & Shou, B. (2015). Managing supply uncertainty under supply chain
Cournot competition. European Journal of Operational Research, 243(1), 156–176.

Fisher, M. L. (1997). What is the right supply chain for your product? Harvard
Business Review, 75(2), 105–116.
Fotopoulos, S. B., Hu, X., & Munson, C. L. (2008). Flexible supply contracts under
price uncertainty. European Journal of Operational Research, 191(1), 253–263.

Gelderman, C. J., & Van Weele, A. J. (2003). Handling measurement issues and
strategic directions in Kraljic’s purchasing portfolio model. Journal of Purchasing
and Supply Management, 9(5), 207–216.

Ghadge, A., Dani, S., Chester, M., & Kalawsky, R. (2013). A systems approach for
modelling supply chain risks. Supply Chain Management: An International
Journal, 18(5), 523–538.

Ghadge, A., Dani, S., & Kalawsky, R. (2012). Supply chain risk management: Present
and future scope. International Journal of Logistics Management, 23(3), 313–339.

Ghiassi, M., & Spera, C. (2003). Defining the Internet-based supply chain system for
mass customized markets. Computers & Industrial Engineering, 45(1), 17–41.

Gunasekaran, A., & Ngai, E. W. T. (2005). Build-to-order supply chain management:
A literature review and framework for development. Journal of Operations
Management, 23(5), 423–451.

Gunasekaran, A., & Ngai, E. W. T. (2009). Modelling and analysis of build-to-order
supply chains. European Journal of Operational Research, 195(2), 319–334.

Hsu, H. M., & Wang, W. P. (2004). Dynamic programming for delayed product
differentiation. European Journal of Operational Research, 1569X, 183–193.

Jacobs William Whybark & Vollmann (2010). Manufacturing planning and control for
supply chain management. McGraw Hill Publication.

Jeong, I. J. (2012). A centralized/decentralized design of a full return contract for a
risk-free manufacturer and a risk-neutral retailer under partial information
sharing. International Journal of Production Economics, 136(1), 110–115.

Karabati, S., & Sayin, S. (2008). Single-supplier/multiple-buyer supply chain
coordination: Incorporating buyers’ expectations under vertical information
sharing. European Journal of Operational Research, 187(3), 746–764.

Karakaya, S., & Bakal, I. S. (2013). Joint quantity flexibility for multiple products in a
decentralized supply chain. Computers & Industrial Engineering, 64(2), 696–707.

Kehoe, D. F., Dani, S., Sharifi, H., Burns, N. D., & Backhouse, C. J. (2007). Demand
network alignment: Aligning the physical, informational and relationship issues
in supply chains. International Journal of Production Research, 45(5), 1141–1160.

Kheljani, J. Gheidar, Ghodsypour, S. H., & O’Brien, C. (2009). Optimizing whole
supply chain benefit versus buyer’s benefit through supplier selection.
International Journal of Production Economics, 121(2), 482–493.

Kirytopoulos, K., Leopoulos, V., Mavrotas, G., & Voulgaridou, D. (2010). Multiple
sourcing strategies and order allocation: An ANP-Augmecon meta-model.
Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, 15(4), 263–276.

Knight, H. (1921). Risk, uncertainty and profit. New York: Harper and Row.
Knoblich, K., Heavey, C., & Williams, P. (2015). Quantitative analysis of

semiconductor supply chain contracts with order flexibility under demand
uncertainty: A case study. Computers & Industrial Engineering, 87, 394–406.

Kraljic, P. (1983). Purchasing must become supply management. Harvard Business
Review, 61(5), 109–117.

Kumar, N. (1996). The power of trust in manufacturer-retailer relationships.
Harvard Business Review, 74(6), 92–106.

Laeequddin, M., Waheed, K. A., & Sahay, V. (2009). Supply chain partners’ trust
building process through risk evaluation: the perspectives of UAE packaged
food industry. Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, 14(4),
280–290.

Lariviere, M. A., & Porteus, E. L. (2001). Selling to the newsvendor: An analysis of
price-only contracts. Manufacturing & Service Operations Management, 3(4),
293–305.

Lau, A. H. L., Lau, H. S., & Wang, J. C. (2008). How a dominant retailer might design a
purchase contract for a newsvendor-type product with price-sensitive demand.
European Journal of Operational Research, 190(2), 443–458.

Li, C. L., & Kouvelis, P. (1999). Flexible and risk-sharing supply contracts under price
uncertainty. Management Science, 45(2), 1378–1398.

Lian, Z., & Deshmukh, A. (2009). Analysis of supply contracts with quantity
flexibility. European Journal of Operational Research, 196(2), 526–533.

Liu, Y., Huang, Y., Luo, Y., & Zhao, Y. (2012). How does justice matter in achieving
buyer–supplier relationship performance? Journal of Operations Management, 30
(5), 355–367.

Lowrance, W. W. (1980). The nature of risk. In Societal risk assessment. USA:
Springer.

Manuj, I., & Mentzer, J. T. (2008). Global supply chain risk management strategies.
International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics Management, 38(3),
192–223.

Miyaoka, J. & Kopczak, L. R. (2000). Using forecast synchronization to reduce the
bullwhip effect of the forecast error. Working paper, Department of Management
Science and Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA.

Montabon, F., Pagell, M. & Wu, Z. (2016). Making sustainability sustainable. Journal
of Supply Chain Management, online.

Natarajarathinam, M., Capar, I., & Narayanan, A. (2009). Managing supply chains in
times of crisis: A review of literature and insights. International Journal of
Physical Distribution & Logistics Management, 39(7), 535–573.

Olsen, R. F., & Ellram, L. M. (1997). A portfolio approach to supplier relationships.
Industrial Marketing Management, 26(2), 101–113.

Porter, M. E., & Millar, V. E. (1985). How information gives you competitive
advantage. Harvard Business Review. July–August.

Rajesh, R., & Ravi, V. (2015). Modeling enablers of supply chain risk mitigation in
electronic supply chains: A Grey–DEMATEL approach. Computers & Industrial
Engineering, 87, 126–139.

Rao, S., & Goldsby, T. J. (2009). Supply chain risks: A review and typology.
International Journal of Logistics Management, 20(1), 97–123.



270 A. Ghadge et al. / Computers & Industrial Engineering 103 (2017) 262–270
Rowe, W. D. (1980). Risk assessment approaches and methods. Society, technology
and risk assessment, 343.

Saccani, N., & Perona, M. (2007). Shaping buyer-supplier relationships in
manufacturing contexts: Design and test of a contingency model. Journal of
Purchasing and Supply Management, 13, 26–40.

Sanders, N. R. (2008). Pattern of information technology use: The impact on buyer-
suppler coordination and performance. Journal of Operations Management, 26(3),
349–367.

Sawik, T. (2016). On the risk-averse optimization of service level in a supply chain
under disruption risks. International Journal of Production Research, 54(1),
98–113.

Shi, C., & Chen, B. (2007). Pareto quantity flexibility contracts for a supply chain
under multiple objectives. Journal of Operations Research Society, 59(5),
685–692.

Simangunsong, E., Hendry, L. C., & Stevenson, M. (2012). Supply-chain uncertainty:
A review and theoretical foundation for future research. International Journal of
Production Research, 50(16), 4493–4523.

Sinclair, D., Hunter, L., & Beumont, P. (1996). Models of customer-supplier relations.
Journal of General management, 22(2), 56–75.

Snyder, L. V., Atan, Z., Peng, P., Rong, Y., Schmitt, A. J., & Sinsoysal, B. (2016). OR/MS
models for supply chain disruptions: A review. IIE Transactions, 48(2), 89–109.

Sodhi, M. S., Son, B.-G., & Tang, C. S. (2012). Researchers perspectives on supply
chain risk management. Production and Operations Management, 21(1), 1–13.

Tang, C. S. (2006). Perspectives in supply chain risk management. International
Journal of Production Economics, 103(1), 451–488.

Tang, O., & Musa, S. N. (2011). Identifying risk issues and research advancements in
supply chain risk management. International Journal of Production Economics,
133(1), 25–34.
Tomas, G., Hult, M., Ketchen, D. J., Jr., & Chabowski, B. R. (2007). Leadership, the
buying center, and supply chain performance: A study of linked users, buyers,
and suppliers. Industrial Marketing Management, 36(3), 393–403.

Tsay, A. A., & Lovejoy, W. S. (1999). Quantity flexibility contracts and supply chain
performance. Manufacturing and Service Operations Management, 1(2), 89–111.

Van Weele, A. J. (2000). Purchasing management: Analysis, planning and practice.
London: Chapman and Hall.

Wagner, S. M., & Bode, C. (2006). An empirical investigation into supply chain
vulnerability. Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management, 12(6), 301–312.

Wagner, S. M., & Bode, C. (2008). An empirical examination of supply chain
performance along several dimensions of risk. Journal of Business Logistics, 29(1),
307–325.

Wakolbinger, T., & Cruz, J. M. (2011). Supply chain disruption risk management
through strategic information acquisition and sharing and risk-sharing
contracts. International Journal of Production Research, 49(3), 1–22.

Wang, B., & Tsao, B. (2006). Supply contract with bidirectional options: The buyer’s
perspective. International Journal of Production Economics, 101, 30–52.

Wang, C. X., & Webster, S. (2009). The loss-averse newsvendor problem. Omega, 37
(1), 93–105.

Wilhelm, M. M., Blome, C., Bhakoo, V., & Paulraj, A. (2016). Sustainability in multi-
tier supply chains: Understanding the double agency role of the first-tier
supplier. Journal of Operations Management, 41, 42–60.

Winters, P. R. (1960). Forecasting sales by exponentially weighted moving averages.
Management Science, 6(3), 324–342.

Xiao, T., & Yang, D. (2009). Risk sharing and information revelation mechanism of a
one-manufacturer and one-retailer supply chain facing an integrated
competitor. European Journal of Operational Research, 196(3), 1076–1085.

Yu, M. C., & Goh, M. (2014). A multi-objective approach to supply chain visibility
and risk. European Journal of Operational Research, 233(1), 125–130.