                                                           The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx


                                                            Contents lists available at ScienceDirect


                                                    The British Accounting Review
                                                    journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/bar




Vertical integration, supply chain disruptions, and corporate yield
spreads
Yifei Li a ,∗, Anni Wang a , Qun Wu a , Zejiang Zhou b
a
    College of Business, University of Nevada, Reno, USA
b
    School of Business, Anhui University, China



ARTICLE                  INFO                              ABSTRACT

JEL classification:                                        Vertical integration can lower transaction costs and enhance a firm’s control over its supply
F15                                                        chain, thereby mitigating supply chain risk and leading to lower yield spreads. However, it
G12                                                        may also lead to asset specificity, which can reduce the liquidation value of assets and increase
G32
                                                           investment uncertainty, potentially resulting in higher yield spreads. We find that firms with
L22
                                                           greater vertical integration exhibit lower bond yield spreads. This effect is more pronounced for
Keywords:                                                  companies facing elevated supply chain risk, supporting the supply chain risk channel. Amid
Vertical integration
                                                           global supply chain disruptions such as the Covid-19 pandemic and the U.S.-China trade war,
Supply chain risk
                                                           vertical integration takes on an even more important role in reducing credit spreads.
Bond yield spreads
Supply chain disruptions




           What the current situation exposes is that the risks associated with supply chain fragmentation and globalization have been
           unpriced and largely ignored. For many companies, the combination of lean production and global multistage supply networks
           is leading to crises. This should be a wake-up call for managers who need to understand their supply chain’s strategic
           vulnerabilities.
                                                                                                                                     [Willy Shih (2020)]1

1. Introduction

    In recent decades, the business landscape has witnessed a notable surge in the significance of global supply chains,2 which have
evolved into fully developed networks comprising a complex web of suppliers, manufacturers, and distributors.3 As firms increasingly
rely on effective supply chain management, the global economy has encountered disruptions from events like the Covid-19 pandemic
and the U.S.-China trade war, posing challenges for companies in managing supply chain risk. Vertical integration emerges as a
noteworthy tool for effectively mitigating supply chain risk (Ahern & Harford, 2014; Ersahin et al., 2024; Garfinkel & Hankins,
2011). Several studies have examined the role of vertical integration in corporate organizational structures (e.g. Grossman & Hart,
1986; Klein et al., 1978; Williamson, 1971, 1979) and its effect on equity prices (e.g. Fan & Goyal, 2006; Helfat & Teece, 1987;


     ∗ Corresponding author.
    E-mail addresses: yifeil@unr.edu (Y. Li), anniw@unr.edu (A. Wang), qunw@unr.edu (Q. Wu), zhouzejiang@ahu.edu.cn (Z. Zhou).
     1
    Is It Time to Rethink Globalized Supply Chains? by Willy Shih, March 19, 2020, MIT Sloan Management Review
  2 In 2020, the combined value of imports and exports of goods and services in the United States amounted to $3.88 trillion, accounting for approximately

18% of the U.S. GDP.
  3 For example, Apple’s global supply chain includes more than 200 suppliers, located in 43 countries and more than 800 production locations, as per the

2022 Apple supplier list.

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2025.101639
Received 27 May 2024; Received in revised form 11 February 2025; Accepted 17 March 2025
Available online 29 March 2025
0890-8389/© 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.



Please cite this article as: Yifei Li et al., The British Accounting Review, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2025.101639
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                              The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

Hendricks et al., 2009);4 however, its impact on bond pricing has received little attention. In this paper, we investigate the effect
of vertical integration on corporate bond yield spreads.
    We examine the vertical integration effect in the corporate bond market for two important reasons. First, corporate bonds, while
generally regarded as safe investments under normal circumstances, are exposed to downside risk (Augustin et al., 2024), such as
severe disruptions in global supply chains. Bond prices impound the probability of default, and yield spreads reflect the expected
risk premiums for bearing both default risk (Campello et al., 2008) and tail risk (Gourio, 2013).5 In case of default, bondholders
have priority over equity holders in claiming firms’ assets, often leaving equity holders with little or no residual value. Consequently,
the impact of supply chain risk may be more prominently observed in firms’ bond yield spreads than in their equity prices. Second,
since the corporate bond yield spread is a forward-looking measure of expected bond performance, it serves as a clean proxy for
a firm’s ex ante risk premium compared to ex post equity-based risk proxies, which are susceptible to both cash flow and discount
rate shocks (Campello et al., 2008; Elton et al., 2001). In our paper, we use transaction yield spreads in the secondary market as a
proxy for time-varying corporate bond risk premiums, as they capture real-time variations in firm-specific supply chain risk.6
    The classic theoretical literature in finance has extensively documented the concept of vertical integration (Coase, 1937;
Grossman & Hart, 1986; Hart & Moore, 1990; Klein et al., 1978; Williamson, 1971, 1979), showing that the coordination
of production occurs within a firm rather than in the market, especially when transaction costs and hold-up problems are
considerable (Holmström & Roberts, 1998).7 At the same time, modern products frequently integrate essential components or
sophisticated materials, demanding specialized technological expertise for their production. Therefore, it is a very challenging task
for a single company to encompass the extensive capabilities needed to independently manufacture everything (Shih, 2020). Due to
this reason, over the past two decades, we have witnessed a wave of global supply chains being established, which simultaneously
highlights the fragility of these systems. This phenomenon naturally leads to intriguing research questions: Should companies
strategically choose vertical integration as a corporate policy to address increased supply chain risk? And if so, would this advantage
be recognized by financial markets?
    To evaluate these questions, we begin by considering the trade-offs between the benefits and costs of vertical integration. With
vertical integration, firms have different stages of production along the supply chain under greater control, implement better
management in both quantity and quality and from inputs to outputs, and reduce their exposure to external risks. According to
transaction cost theory, firms choose vertical integration when the expenses associated with arm’s length transactions surpass those
of coordinating activities within a single firm (Williamson, 1971, 1979). Firms with higher degrees of vertical integration are posited
to gain advantages in reducing transaction costs and improving information flow along the supply chain (Mahoney, 1992; Pishchulov
et al., 2023), thereby lowering the firm’s risk. A more vertically integrated company, through control of critical elements in the
supply chain, not only reduces its dependence on external suppliers and allows the company to adapt more quickly to changes in
supply and demand, but also establishes a buffer against supply chain disruptions. As a result, the benefit of vertical integration
predicts a negative relationship between vertical integration and corporate yield spreads, indicative of reduced supply chain risk
premiums.
    On the other hand, there is a potential downside of asset specificity linked with vertical integration. By investing in assets
uniquely customized for their internal operation processes and supply chain requirements, vertically integrated firms increase their
asset specificity. High levels of asset specificity can result in reduced liquidation value on these assets (Shleifer & Vishny, 1992)
and magnify the impact of uncertainty on investment decisions (Kedia et al., 2009; Kermani & Ma, 2023).8 Additionally, the risk
of post-contractual opportunistic behavior, driven by the specificity of investments (Anderson & Weitz, 1992; Coase, 2006; Klein
et al., 1978), could result in higher risks borne by firms with increased levels of vertical integration.9 Therefore, the cost of vertical
integration could posit a positive relationship between vertical integration and corporate yield spreads, reflecting the potential costs
of asset specificity. Considering both the benefits and the costs of vertical integration, the relationship between vertical integration
and corporate yield spreads remains an open question.
    Our main finding demonstrates a negative relationship between vertical integration and corporate yield spreads. The result of a
reduction in risk premium indicates that the benefits of vertical integration in mitigating supply chain risk outweigh the potential
costs. To explore how bond investors value production coordination by demanding a diminished risk premium from highly vertically


   4 Researchers have broadly investigated the effect of vertical-related integration from the perspective of shareholders. For instance, Helfat and Teece (1987)

suggest that vertical mergers may reduce a firm’s systematic risk. Fan and Goyal (2006) find that vertical mergers generate significantly greater positive wealth
effects than vertically unrelated mergers. According to Hendricks et al. (2009), companies with a high level of vertical relatedness encounter a less adverse stock
market reaction to supply chain disruptions.
   5 Tail risk refers to low-probability events with catastrophic consequences, such as the major global supply chain disruptions addressed in this paper.
   6 We focus on transaction yield spreads as they are more dynamic, reflecting shifts in investor expectations, firm-specific developments, and macroeconomic

conditions. In contrast, offering yield spreads capture issuer credit quality and prevailing market condition only at the time of issuance. Additionally, the secondary
bond market offers greater liquidity, allowing for more frequent trading and updated pricing based on new information. This makes transaction yield spreads a
more reliable proxy for time-varying risk perceptions, particularly during events like supply chain disruptions.
   7 Holmström and Roberts (1998) demonstrates that when a supply relationship encounters more extensive hold-up problems, the optimal solution may involve

vertical integration. In such cases, all components of the operation are sourced internally rather than externally. The organization and governance structure of
a firm are thus considered as mechanisms for addressing hold-up problems.
   8 Due to the fear of future renegotiation or expropriation involving high-specificity assets, firms might hesitate to invest, leading to underinvestment that

could otherwise enhance efficiency and competitiveness.
   9 Asset specificity can reduce a firm’s versatility and make its assets difficult to reconfigure for external markets. This can lead to opportunistic behavior, as

these assets may lose substantial value if repurposed for other uses.


                                                                                  2
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                            The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

integrated firms, we employ firm-year-specific vertical integration scores as introduced by Frésard et al. (2020) to gauge the extent
of vertical integration within firms. The vertical integration (𝑉 𝐼) score indicates the potential of the given firm’s products to be
vertically related to the other products sold by the same firm. Intuitively, if this score is higher, the firm is more vertically integrated.
Empirical results of our study show that vertical integration plays a significant role in explaining corporate bond yield spreads when
controlling for well-established bond yield determinant variables in the literature.10 Specifically, we observe that a firm with a higher
degree of vertical integration is associated with lower credit spreads. A one-standard-deviation increase in 𝑉 𝐼 correlates with an 17
basis points decrease in bond yield spreads without control variables, and a 4 basis points decrease in yield spreads when accounting
for a set of yield spread determinants.
    Next, we explore the underlying mechanism by which vertical integration is associated with lower corporate yield spreads.
Vertical integration is recognized as a potent strategy for mitigating supply chain risk (e.g., Ersahin et al., 2024), giving firms
greater control over their supply chain and reducing reliance on external suppliers and logistics providers. Thus, the supply chain risk
channel serves as a plausible mechanism for the influence of vertical integration on corporate credit spreads. To test this conjecture,
we classify the sample into three groups each year, based on both firm-level and industry-level supply chain risk, and then perform
the baseline regressions for each subsample. Our findings reveal a heightened vertical integration effect within the high supply chain
risk group, suggesting that the reduction in yield spreads attributable to vertical integration likely stems from its role in mitigating
supply chain risk and thereby lowering the associated risk premium.
    The preceding analysis does not rule out the possibility of other risk channels that might intersect with the vertical integration
effect on supply chain risk. For instance, the impact of vertical integration on the reduction of supply chain risk could also lead to
lower credit risk and liquidity risk. To provide further insight into these potential risk channels introduced by vertical integration, we
undertake supplementary tests to investigate its effects within different credit risk and liquidity risk subgroups.11 Regarding credit
risk, our findings reveal a heightened vertical integration effect within the medium credit risk group, with no significant impact
observed for the high and low credit risk groups. In terms of bond liquidity risk, we observe a more pronounced effect within the
high liquidity risk group, contrasting with weaker effects for both the medium and low liquidity risk groups. Our results suggest
that the negative effect of vertical integration on credit spreads could be interacted with a reduction in bond liquidity risk, while
the effect dissipates for bonds facing high or low credit risk.
    We further investigate the impact of vertical integration on corporate yield spreads during supply chain disruptions. Recent
disruptions have imposed significant costs on firms relying on global supply chains, underscoring the importance of examining
vertical integration in this context. In addition, by employing recent global supply chain disruptions as exogenous industry-wide
shocks, we address potential endogeneity concerns in assessing the relationship between vertical integration and yield spreads. Prior
studies suggest that supply chain risk influences vertical integration decisions (Ersahin et al., 2024); however, the effect of vertical
integration on risk premiums under various types of supply chain disruptions remains largely unexplored. To address this gap, we
analyze two major supply chain disruptions during our sample period: the Covid-19 pandemic and the U.S.-China trade war. Despite
their differences, these events represent distinct types of global supply chain disruptions,12 offering a broader perspective on the
effect of vertical integration on bond yield spreads.
    In particular, we examine how the effect of vertical integration on corporate yield spreads varies with the onset of these two
events. First, our findings show a notable association between vertical integration and substantially reduced yield spreads during
the pandemic period. Specifically, a one-standard-deviation increase in vertical integration results in a significant decrease of 7
basis points in yield spreads during this challenging period. This effect becomes even more pronounced for firms exposed to greater
Covid-19-related uncertainties and those facing heightened supply chain risk. Second, we observe a comparable impact of vertical
integration during the U.S.-China trade war. Vertical integration assumes a more significant role with the onset of the trade war,
particularly for firms reliant on imported Chinese goods. Collectively, our findings illustrate that vertical integration mitigates the
risks amplified by global supply chain disruptions, thereby resulting in lower bond yield spreads.
    We also explore the interaction between vertical integration and firm inventory on corporate yield spreads, and analyze this
interaction amidst supply chain disruptions. Our findings show that vertical integration plays a more prominent role for firms
with low inventory levels estimated from the previous quarter. During supply chain disruptions, the marginal impact of vertical
integration on firms with low inventory levels diverges, with a positive effect during the pandemic period, while a negative effect
emerges during the U.S.-China trade war. This divergent effect is likely attributed to the distinct features of these two events.
Moreover, we also examine whether a firm’s level of vertical integration interact with its product market power in determining
yield spreads. We find that vertical integration has a more pronounced impact on reducing yield spreads for firms with higher
product pricing power, as these firms derive greater benefits from vertical integration.


  10 These control variables include credit ratings, bond illiquidity, maturity in years, issue size, coupon, pretax interest coverage, operating income to sales,

long-term debt to assets and equity volatility. Section 4 provides more details.
  11 Specifically, bonds are classified into three credit risk groups according to their credit rating: high credit risk with credit ratings of BB+ or below, medium

credit risk with ratings between BBB- to A+, and low credit risk with ratings of AA- or above. Alternatively, bonds are sorted into three illiquidity groups based
on Roll (1984)’s bond illiquidity measure: high if it exceeds 75%, medium if it falls between 25% and 75%, and low if it is below 25%. Section 4 provides
details on sample construction.
  12 The Covid-19 pandemic caused sudden and widespread disruptions due to factory shutdowns, labor shortages and logistics bottlenecks, affecting entire

supply chains and multiple industries simultaneously (ECB Economic Bulletin, Issue 8/2021). In contrast, the U.S.-China trade war represents a more politically
driven disruption, primarily impacting specific industries and firms with international supply chains tied to the U.S. and China, largely through tariffs and
regulatory changes (May 2019 IMF World Economic Outlook).


                                                                                 3
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                        The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

    Our research makes three contributions to the existing literature. First, our paper contributes to the ongoing discussion on the
implications of organizational structure, specifically examining the strain of literature on vertical integration. While existing studies
examine the risk reduction and value enhancement of vertical integration mainly from the perspective of shareholders (e.g., Fan
& Goyal, 2006; Helfat & Teece, 1987; Kedia et al., 2009; Spiller, 1985), to our knowledge, we are the first to explore if and how
creditors value the firms’ vertical integration. For instance, we differ from Fan and Goyal (2006) by providing new evidence from the
perspective of bondholders.13 In addition, our study is novel in several aspects: Firstly, we take advantage of the newly developed
construct of firm-level vertical integration by Frésard et al. (2020), allowing us to examine the issue across a broader sample rather
than being limited to firm-level events. Secondly, we utilize the macroeconomic events such as U.S.-China Trade War and Covid-19
Pandemic as exogenous shocks, thereby demonstrating the amplified impact of vertical integration during times of significant shock
and uncertainty. In a nutshell, our study examines the effect of vertical integration in the corporate bonds markets, and finds that
bond investors demand lower risk premiums, as indicated by lower credit spreads, for more vertically integrated firms.
    Second, we enhance the burgeoning body of work emphasizing the significance of global supply chain shocks. Building on the
theoretical work of Long and Plosser (1983), a pioneering study to explore production network shocks, subsequent studies have
shown that the propagation of these shocks through supply chain linkages can result in significant aggregate fluctuations.14 For
instance, Acemoglu and Tahbaz-Salehi (2020) reveal that firm failures and the resulting disruptions to supply chains can amplify
negative shocks. In light of the recent global supply chain disruptions, Carvalho et al. (2021) study the disruption caused by the Great
East Japan Earthquake, showing how it propagated upstream and downstream along supply chains. Fajgelbaum et al. (2020) find
the negative externality of protectionism on the U.S. economy, demonstrating that import and retaliatory tariffs caused substantial
declines in imports and exports. Additionally, Hassan et al. (2023) observe the effects of Covid-19 as a simultaneous shock to
demand and supply, both of which impact firms’ market valuations. Our research further examines the effect of vertical integration
on corporate credit spreads amid supply chain disruptions and provides empirical evidence that the vertical integration plays a more
prominent role in reducing yield spreads during these periods.
    Third, our study enriches the current research on the determinants of credit spreads and their implications for financial markets.
Standard bond pricing models, including both structural and reduced-form models, have encountered limitations in explaining
observed bond yield spreads. Empirical applications of these bond-pricing models find that credit risk explains only a fraction of yield
spreads (Collin-Dufresn et al., 2001; Elton et al., 2001; Huang & Huang, 2012). Recent studies suggest that some of the variations
could be driven by the effect of equity volatility (Campbell & Taksler, 2003), bond illiquidity (Bao et al., 2011; Chen et al., 2007),
and rollover risk (Nagler, 2020), among others. While these factors might account for the determinants of yield spreads, they are
unlikely to be the sole explanation. Our study contributes to the literature by demonstrating that vertical integration can effectively
manage a firm’s supply chain risk, which represents an additional source of risk not previously considered in bond pricing models.
    The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 offers an exploration of the institutional background and hypothesis
development. The subsequent Section 3 delves into the details of the data and methodology, while Section 4 presents our primary
findings. We then explore how firm vertical integration responds to diverse global supply chain shocks in Section 5. Section 6
presents additional analyses. Finally, Section 7 concludes.

2. Institutional background

2.1. Global supply chains

    For decades, global supply chains have been a prevalent feature of the international business arena. The advent of globalization
has ignited a new phase of international competition, leading to a transformation in global production and trade, consequently
reshaping the organizational structure of industries (Gereffi et al., 2005; Gereffi & Lee, 2012).15
    Since the mid-1960s, U.S. manufacturing firms have been fragmenting their supply chains in pursuit of cost-effective and capable
offshore suppliers. The 1970s and 1980s witnessed the inclusion of U.S. retailers and brand-name companies in the quest for offshore
suppliers across various consumer goods categories.16 The 1990s and 2000s marked a substantial expansion of global supply chains,
encompassing not just finished goods but also components and subassemblies. This expansion not only impacted manufacturing
industries but also extended its influence to sectors such as energy, food production, and a diverse range of services, ranging from
call centers and accounting to medical procedures and the core research and development (R&D) activities of the world’s leading
multinational corporations (Engardio et al., 2005; Gereffi et al., 2005).


  13 Fan and Goyal (2006) examine the value creation effects of firms’ decisions on vertical integration by analyzing stock returns around the announcement of

vertical mergers from 1962 to 1996, representing one of the earlier empirical investigations into the equity valuation of vertical integration.
  14 Studies, including those by Carvalho (2014), Baqaee and Farhi (2019), Liu (2019), and Bigio and La’O (2020), explore the role of supply chain linkages in

propagating shocks and distortions.
  15 According to the survey literature by Antràs and Yeaple (2014), data from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis shows that sales of domestically produced

goods to foreign customers constituted only 25% of the total sales of large American firms. The remaining 75% was attributed to the sales of foreign affiliates
of American multinational corporations (Yeaple, 2013). Additionally, information from the U.S. Census Bureau indicates that approximately 90% of both U.S.
exports and imports are facilitated through multinational firms. Almost half of U.S. imports occur within the operations of multinational firms rather than
between unaffiliated parties (Bernard et al., 2009).
  16 In the 1960s, the concept of ‘‘global outsourcing’’ primarily concentrated on the basic assembly of parts provided by U.S. manufacturers, exemplified by

initiatives like the U.S. production-sharing or ‘‘twin plant’’ program with Mexico. Transitioning to the 1970s and 1980s, these chains evolved from regional
production-sharing arrangements to comprehensive global supply chains, with an increasing focus on East Asia (Dicken, 2007; Gereffi, 1996).


                                                                              4
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                              The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx




Fig. 1. Timeline of global supply chains and major disruption events.
Fig. 1 presents a flow chart illustrating the evolution of global supply chains from the mid-1960s to the post-Covid-19 era, outlining key milestones and events
shaping their trajectory. It captures the historical evolution, demonstrating how global supply chains adapt and reassess continuously in response to significant
events (Carvalho et al., 2021; Constantinescu et al., 2020; Engardio et al., 2005; Hass & Denmark, 2020).




    Entering the 21st century, fully developed global supply chains were established, setting the stage for significant events capable
of profoundly impacting their flow. A notable illustration is the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011, marked by its exogenous
and regional nature, which underscores the vulnerable state of global supply chains. The subsequent disruptions spread both
upstream and downstream along the supply chains, affecting the direct and indirect suppliers and customers of the disaster-stricken
firms (Carvalho et al., 2021). The limitations of putting all their eggs with one supplier strategies become evident when considering
that not all manufacturers, with their intricate networks of suppliers, share the same level of experience or possess extensive backup
plans. This realization leads to a chaotic scramble, unveiling the disadvantages and resulting in production delays, product shortages,
and increased prices (Fisher, 2011).17 In the wake of the unforeseen and disastrous interruption caused by the Japanese earthquake,
numerous offshore firms now have the opportunity to assess the cost and benefit trade-offs of implementing measures such as
increasing supplier or geographic diversity.
    In the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, a trend towards international trade protectionism was set in motion, impacting global
supply chains (Zahoor et al., 2023). Numerous economically developed governments have implemented populist policies and
measures that endorse the local sourcing of supplies, with the goal of safeguarding their local industries and jobs (Constantinescu
et al., 2020). These policy interventions have attracted considerable attention, prompted by the efforts of the 45th President of the
United States, Donald Trump, to reestablish U.S. global leadership with a more inward-looking and fortress-like mentality.18 The
shift ultimately led to the commencement of the U.S.-China trade war, a phenomenon contrasting with the original inception of the
global supply chain.
    Over the past decade, in addition to the 2011 Great East Japan earthquake and the U.S.-China trade war, another significant
occurrence has become part of the series of black swan events: the Covid-19 pandemic. After the 2011 earthquake, certain companies,
especially in the semiconductor industry, made gradual adjustments by creating alternative sources (Okada & Shirahada, 2022).
Despite the lessons drawn from the trade war, a substantial number of businesses returned to the status quo, deeming it nearly
impossible to replace key suppliers in China (Hass & Denmark, 2020). However, the Covid-19 pandemic stands out as it has
highlighted country risk on an unprecedented scale. The global disruption resulting from the world’s second-largest economy
going offline and cutting external logistics connections was unforeseeable. Many firms are now recognizing the extent of their
dependencies, prompting the necessity to reassess supply chain risks and enhance their networks for greater resilience (Shih, 2020).
    In summary, Fig. 1 illustrates the development of global supply chains, highlighting key events that have shaped their trajectory,
including major disruptive shocks. Drawing on the concept of ‘‘renationalization’’ as discussed in Bonadio et al. (2021) which entails
the reestablishment of economic activities or production processes within a country, particularly in response to global disruptions
like the Covid-19 pandemic, we delve deeper into the role of vertical integration strategies in mitigating supply chain risk.19


  17 For instance, approximately 22% of the global 300 mm silicon wafer supply can be traced back to the Shin-Etsu Handotai’s Shirakawa plant in Fukushima

prefecture, with 60% of crucial automotive components originating from the same region. Moreover, this area assumes a pivotal role as a supplier of lithium
battery chemicals, flash memory, and anisotropic conductive film used in LCD flat panel displays.
  18 Prasad, R. (2021).U.S. historians on what Donald Trump’s legacy will be. BBC News. January 1, 2021, https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-55640427.
  19 Prior research indicates that the ‘‘renationalization’’ of global supply chains does not necessarily enhance a country’s resilience to pandemic-induced

contractions. This is because, in the context of a labor-supply shock, reducing reliance on foreign inputs merely shifts the emphasis to domestic inputs. If
domestic inputs are also susceptible to lockdowns, renationalization fails to mitigate contraction. Resilience through renationalization is contingent on the country’s
lockdown stringency compared to its trading partners; a less stringent lockdown or vice versa would contribute to increased economic resilience (Bonadio et al.,
2021).


                                                                                  5
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                          The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

2.2. Firm vertical integration

    The exploration of vertical integration within firms provides invaluable insights into corporate organizational structures. Building
on the pioneering work of Coase (1937) regarding the firm boundaries, extensive literature has laid the theoretical groundwork for
vertical integration (e.g. Grossman & Hart, 1986; Hart & Moore, 1990; Klein et al., 1978; Williamson, 1971, 1979). These studies
emphasize that production is often coordinated within a firm, rather than in the market, particularly when transaction costs and
hold-up problems are significant. Furthermore, vertically integrated firms, facilitated by technical dialogs between upstream and
downstream units, are more inclined to possess internal access to extensive knowledge base of firm-specific information compared
to vertically specialized firms (Monteverde, 1995). Adopting vertical integration can thus be a strategic choice that enhances a firm’s
product portfolio and competitive advantage, ultimately boosting firm performance (Lahiri & Narayanan, 2013; Rothaermel et al.,
2006).20
    To effectively illustrate the concept of vertical integration, which involves owning or controlling various stages of an industry’s
value chain,21 we turn to the automobile industry, focusing on Tesla. Tesla’s unique vertical integration structure and operational
efficiency have significantly contributed to its industry prominence.
    The idea of vertical integration is not new; it dates back to the early days of automobile manufacturing. In the 1920s, Ford
Motors pioneered this approach by controlling resources and production processes, from mining iron ore to manufacturing tires,
glass, and powertrain. This comprehensive strategy helped Ford secure essential components, particularly during times of high
demand. Following a similar strategy, Tesla minimizes reliance on external suppliers by integrating across various stages, from
battery production to electric powertrain manufacturing and self-driving software development. CEO Elon Musk describes this as
a ‘‘chain of startups’’, enabling Tesla to navigate battery shortages that have limited traditional automakers’ ability to scale electric
vehicle production.22
    The automotive sector has faced considerable challenges due to the recent supply chain disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pan-
demic. A global shortage of chips, coupled with various supply chain shocks, has significantly impacted the entire industry (Ramani
et al., 2022). In navigating these challenges, Tesla’s vertically integrated strategy has demonstrated to be particularly advantageous,
allowing the company to better withstand and adapt to the complexities of the disrupted supply chain. Organized into three main
divisions — Auto, Energy, and Information Technology, Fig. 2 outlines Tesla’s vertical integration strategy and its corresponding
competitors in each sector.
    As supply chain uncertainty escalates and the likelihood of bottlenecks increases, the challenges associated with hold-up problems
between a company and its suppliers become more pronounced, leading to a heightened preference for vertical integration (Ersahin
et al., 2024; Grossman & Hart, 1986). Viewing this issue from an alternative perspective, if firm vertical integration demonstrates
itself as a better alternative for mitigating supply chain disruptions, then it follows that vertical integration is a strategic approach for
firms to navigate the adverse impacts of supply chain risk. Consider the case of Tesla, where in every crucial aspect of its operations,
the company is self-sufficient and does not depend on external sources for vital components like chips, software, or batteries. In
this context, vertical integration should be acknowledged as an effective strategy to move away from ‘‘catalogue engineering’’ and is
reflected as a meaningful corporate strategy.23

2.3. Main hypothesis

    In this paper, we propose hypotheses with respect to the pricing of firm-level vertical integration within financial markets, with
a particular emphasis on the perspective of bond investors. On the positive side, vertical integration can benefit firms from two
distinct perspectives.
    Firstly, vertical integration may reduce transaction costs and alleviate hold-up problems. Expanding upon Coase (1937), market
transactions between independently operated vertically related firms may suffer significant costs. This line of literature, exemplified
by seminal works like Williamson (1971, 1979), posits that transactions should occur within a firm (vertical integration) when
the expenses associated with arm’s length transactions between specialized firms exceed those of coordinating multiple activities
within a single firm. Moreover, vertical integration can facilitate information flow and enhance transparency between upstream
and downstream entities along the supply chain (Mahoney, 1992; Pishchulov et al., 2023). Therefore, firms with a high degree of
vertical integration benefit by reducing transaction costs and mitigating information asymmetry.
    Secondly, from the risk management perspective, vertical integration emerges as a strategic tool to mitigate risks associated with
the supply chain. By controlling critical elements along the supply chain, a more vertically integrated company lessens its reliance


  20 The benefits of pursuing vertical integration have been underscored in numerous prior studies, as exemplified by Dyer (1996), Dyer and Singh (1998), Hill

and Hoskisson (1987), Ireland et al. (2002), Jones and Hill (1988), Stuart (2000).
  21 There are two types of vertical integration: forward and backward. Forward integration involves merging with or acquiring businesses closer to the end

consumer, such as downstream manufacturers, retailers, or distributors. In contrast, backward integration involves integrating with upstream entities, such as
suppliers or raw material producers, to better manage input quality, cost, and availability. In this paper, we do not attempt to distinguish between the two types
when referring to vertical integration.
  22 In 2014, before other automakers entered the electric vehicle market, Tesla collaborated with Panasonic to establish its gigafactory for battery production

in 2014, ensuring a consistent and reliable battery supply. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gigafactory_Nevada.
  23 In a 2020 earnings call, Elon Musk stated, ‘‘We’re designing and building much more of the car than other OEMs, who primarily resort to the traditional

supply base and, as I refer to it, engage in what I call catalog engineering’’.


                                                                                6
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                          The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx




Fig. 2. Comparative analysis of vertical integration: tesla vs. competitors.
Fig. 2 illustrates Tesla’s diverse business segments and their respective competitors, providing a comprehensive overview of the company’s vertical integration
across automotive, energy, and information technology industries. It highlights key competitors in each sector, ranging from traditional automotive rivals in the
auto division to competitors in energy solutions and information technology. This comprehensive figure visually represents Tesla’s competitive positioning across
its diverse business lines, showcasing how the vertical integration approach facilitates rapid learning and retained control over key design details (Perkins &
Murmann, 2018).




on external suppliers (Grossman & Hart, 1986) and allows for better coordination of the production process (Alfaro et al., 2019).
Beyond the traditional approaches such as fostering relationships with nearby and domestic suppliers, as well as with industry-
leading suppliers, firms use vertical integration to navigate supply chain complexities, improve operational efficiency, and stay
ahead of the competition (Ersahin et al., 2024).
   In addition, firms establish vertical integration as a buffer against supply chain disruptions, enabling them to respond more
swiftly to fluctuations in supply and demand. While earlier studies focus on cash-flow uncertainty (Garfinkel & Hankins, 2011) and
industry shocks (Ahern & Harford, 2014) as factors motivating firms to integrate different stages of production, recent disruption
events have further revealed the vulnerabilities of global supply chains. These disruptions result in production delays, product
shortages, increased costs, and changes in firms’ resourcing strategies. Vertical integration stands out as a strategy to provide firms
with greater resilience and flexibility to mitigate risks associated with global supply chain disruptions (Arora et al., 2024).
   Taken together, vertical integration could decrease a firm’s risk (Helfat & Teece, 1987), thereby reducing the ex ante bond risk
premium and associated bond yield spreads. Hence, we anticipate lower corporate yield spreads for more vertically integrated firms,
thereby forming the main hypothesis of the paper.

Hypothesis 1a. There is a negative relationship between vertical integration and corporate yield spreads.

    On the flip side, vertical integration introduces the potential pitfall of asset specificity. By investing in assets uniquely tailored to
their internal production processes and industry needs, vertically integrated firms become more asset-specific. Assets designed for
highly specific purposes generally exhibit low redeployability and liquidation value (Shleifer & Vishny, 1992).24 As a result, asset
specificity is often linked to poor debt recoveries during periods of industry- or firm-level distress (Acharya et al., 2007), which can
adversely impact firm value, particularly when liquidity is urgently needed (Kim, 2018). Concerned about the limited liquidation
value of specific assets, firms may hesitate to invest (Kermani & Ma, 2023), due to the possibility that they may need to sell capital
in an uncertain future but recover little of the undepreciated asset value (Chirinko & Schaller, 2009). Hence, high asset specificity
can reduce the value of existing investments and amplify the effect of uncertainty on investment activities.
    In addition, asset specificity can be associated with post contractual opportunistic behavior, prompting other involved parties to
extract rents ex post (Coase, 2006; Klein et al., 1978; Williamson, 1985). Once a specific investment is undertaken, the prospect of



 24 The equilibrium model by Shleifer and Vishny (1992) predicts that assets tailored for highly industry-specific purposes typically exhibit low redeployability

outside the industry, particularly when firms become financially constrained due to industry-wide negative cash flow shocks.


                                                                               7
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                              The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

opportunistic behavior emerges,25 and the resulting asset loses substantial value if repurposed for another use (Anderson & Weitz,
1992; Gulati et al., 1994; Hwang, 2006). Under this assumption, the assets of vertically integrated firms become highly specific to
their internal operations, making them less versatile and more challenging to reconfigure for external markets. This specialization can
lead to a substantial loss in asset value if the firm attempts to use or sell these assets for purposes other than their original intended
use within the integrated production process. This cost can incentive other transacting parties to generate rents post-transaction.
   To summarize, if the market factors in the cost of asset specificity in reducing firm value, we anticipate that investors will
perceive such firms as riskier and, therefore, demand higher credit spreads for more vertically integrated firms in bond markets.

Hypothesis 1b. There is a positive relationship between vertical integration and corporate yield spreads.

3. Data and sample

3.1. Text-based vertical integration data

     The sample used in this study consists of non-financial firms from July 2002 to June 2020.26 The data of the firm-level score of
vertical integration is constructed and validated by Frésard et al. (2020). The score provides the degree which a firm’s products to
be vertically related to the other products sold by the same firm in a year. In Frésard et al. (2020), the establishment of vertical
relatedness between pairs of commodities is based on the 2002 BEA input–output (IO) tables. The annually updated information
regarding the products offered by firms, sourced from 10-K annual firm business descriptions in the SEC Edgar database, is utilized
to identify vertical relatedness among products within firms by combining the vocabulary found in firm 10-Ks with the terminology
defining the BEA IO commodities. By the construct, the score of vertical integration will be higher if a firm’s business description
contains many word pairs that are vertically related. In another word, a firm has higher score of vertical integration when its product
vocabulary spans vertically related markets.27
     To begin the process of applying Frésard et al. (2020)’s text-based measure of vertical integration, the 10-K annual firm business
descriptions are first identified and extracted from the SEC Edgar Database following the same process as in Hoberg and Phillips
(2016). Then, use the 2002 BEA input–output (IO) tables, which provide dollar flows between producers and purchasers in the
U.S. economy, and the Detailed Item Output table, which verbally describes each commodity and its subcommodities to assist in
identifying vertical relatedness. Note that, in this step, only nouns and proper nouns are included, and additional screens are put in
place to ensure the identification of vertical links is accurate.28
     The next step involves merging the vocabulary from firms’ 10-K reports with the vocabulary that defines BEA IO commodities to
determine vertical relatedness between firms. The detailed process consists of three primary stages. First, Frésard et al. (2020)
connect each firm-year in the Compustat/Edgar universe to BEA IO commodities by calculating the similarity between the
firm’s business description and the textual description of each BEA commodity. Second, the vocabularies of both firms and BEA
commodities are represented as vectors, with lengths equal to the number of nouns and proper nouns found in the 10-K business
descriptions for each year. Each element of these vectors corresponds to an individual word. The third step involves computing the
‘‘firms to IO commodity correspondence matrix’’, 𝐵, which has dimensions 𝑀 ×𝐶, where 𝐶 represents the number of IO commodities
and 𝑀 represents the number of firms. An entry 𝐵𝑚,𝑐 (row 𝑚, column 𝑐) is the cosine similarity between the text of the given IO
commodity 𝑐 and the text in firm 𝑚’s business description.29
     To measure the extent to which firm 𝑖 is located upstream relative to firm 𝑗, use the following triple product: UP𝑖,𝑗 = [𝐵 ⋅ 𝑉 ⋅ 𝐵 ′ ]𝑖,𝑗 ,
where 𝑉 is a sparse square matrix based on the extent to which a given commodity is vertically linked (upstream or downstream) to
another commodity.30 This step yields an 𝑀 × 𝑀 matrix of upstream-to-downstream relatedness between firms 𝑖 and 𝑗. Downstream
relatedness is simply the mirror image of upstream relatedness, DOWN𝑖𝑗 = UP𝑖𝑗 . Frésard et al. (2020) then repeat this procedure
for each year, creating a time-varying network of firm-pairwise vertical integration (𝑉 𝐼) measure.


  25 When assets are specific, firms face the risk of being expropriated by the counterpart through opportunistic renegotiation. This can happen when the

transaction partner realizes that the firm has few or no alternatives and can threaten to exit or impose new terms to capture a larger share of these quasi-rents.
  26 We start the sample in 2002 as this coincides with the availability of data from the TRACE Enhanced database.
  27 We thank Frésard et al. (2020) for the data.
  28 As stated in Frésard et al. (2020), the filtering process includes manually discarding expressions indicating a vertical relation, removing expressions indicating

exceptions, discarding common words from commodity vocabularies, and removing any words that do not frequently co-appear with other words in a given
commodity’s vocabulary.
  29 In calculating cosine similarity, the weights of commodity word vectors are assigned based on the economic importance of each word from the commodity-

word correspondence matrix (𝐶𝑊 ). The 𝐶𝑊 matrix is structured with three columns: a commodity, a commodity word, and the corresponding economic
importance. The firm word vectors are equally weighted, following Hoberg and Phillips (2016).
  30 According to Frésard et al. (2020), the matrix 𝑉 is obtained by first constructing the SHARE matrix, an 𝐼 × 𝐶 matrix (Industry × Commodity) that contains

the percentage of commodity 𝑐 produced by a given industry 𝑖. The USE matrix is a 𝐶 × 𝐼 matrix that records the dollar value of industry 𝑖’s purchase of
commodity 𝑐 as input. The CFLOW matrix is then given by USE × SHARE, resulting in a 𝐶 × 𝐶 matrix of dollar flows from an upstream commodity 𝑐 to
a downstream commodity 𝑑. In line with Fan and Goyal (2006), the SUPP matrix is defined as CFLOW divided by the total production of the downstream
commodity 𝑑. SUPP records the fraction of commodity 𝑐 that is used as an input to produce commodity 𝑑. Likewise, the CUST matrix is given by CFLOW divided
by the total production of the upstream commodity 𝑐, recording the fraction of commodity 𝑐’s total production that is used to produce commodity 𝑑. The 𝑉
matrix is then calculated as the average of SUPP and CUST. A higher value in 𝑉 indicates a stronger vertical relationship between commodities 𝑐 and 𝑑.


                                                                                  8
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                        The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

3.2. Corporate bond data

    Corporate bond data come from the enhanced Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine (TRACE) and Mergent’s Fixed Investment
Securities Database (FISD). The enhanced TRACE database provides transaction details for all publicly traded corporate bonds, with
coverage beginning in July 2002. The FISD database offers issuance information for all fixed-income securities, including information
on both the issue and issuer, such as coupon rates, issue date, maturity date, issue size, ratings, and other bond characteristics. Bond
yields and trade data for corporate bonds are sourced from the TRACE, while ratings and bond-specific characteristics are obtained
from the FISD. To compute monthly bond yield spreads, we first calculate daily bond yields as the trade-size weighted average of
intraday yields.31 We then take the last available daily bond yield from the last five trading days of the month (excluding weekends
and holidays) as the month-end bond yield. Using the last transaction yield within this window, rather than relying solely on the
last day, increases the number of non-missing monthly observations. If no trades occur within the last five trading days, the month’s
yield is recorded as missing. Finally, we define the primary variable, Yield Spread, as the difference between the yield of a bond and
the corresponding treasury bond yield with a comparable maturity.32
    We implement standard filters (e.g., Dick-Nielsen, 2009; Dick-Nielsen et al., 2012) and clean the TRACE data by eliminating
canceled, corrected, and reversed trades. Then, we follow Bessembinder et al. (2009) and Lin et al. (2011) and remove bonds that
are not listed or traded in the U.S. public market such as bonds issued through private placement, bonds issued under the 144 A
rule, bonds that do not trade in U.S. dollars, and bond issuers outside the jurisdiction of the United States. We also exclude bonds
with a maturity of less than 1 year and longer than 30 years, preferred shares, non-U.S. dollar-denominated bonds, and bonds that
are mortgage-backed, asset-backed, convertible and exchangeable as well as secured bonds. Finally, we mainly use the Standard
& Poor’s (S&P) rating from the FISD, but, if it is not available, we use the Moody’s or Fitch rating when possible and drop bonds
whose ratings we cannot identify.
    We then match the sample with Compustat database to obtain accounting data. The final dataset includes 393,379 bond-month
observations spanning from July 2002 to June 2020. Appendix A provides variable definitions.

3.3. Summary statistics

    Table 1 presents summary statistics of vertical integration as well as firm and bond characteristics. To minimize the influence
of extreme values, we winsorize all continuous variables at their 1st and 99th percentiles. Vertical integration assesses the extent
to which a firm provides products or services that are vertically connected. A higher value signifies a greater degree of vertical
integration. The average of vertical integration is 0.0141 with a standard deviation of 0.0115 ranging from 0.0025 to 0.0296 between
the 10th to 90th percentiles.
    The main variable of interest is the bond yield spread, which has a mean of 1.60% and a standard deviation of 2.11%. Roll
(1984)’s bond illiquidity (𝐼𝑙𝑙𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦) measure estimates the percentage bid–asks spread, with an average bond illiquidity at 1.44%.
To facilitate empirical analysis, we translate bond credit ratings into numerical values using a rating conversion scheme: AAA=1,
AA+=2, . . . , C=21, and D=22. The median credit rating is 8, equivalent to BBB+. Concurrently, the median issue size is $450
million, with a maturity period of 7 years and a coupon rate of 5.38%. In addition, we report the bond sample distribution by year
in Table B.1. The bond issuers have an average long-term debt to assets ratio of 0.30 and a total debt to capitalization ratio of 0.32.
Their average operating income to sales ratio is 0.24, and the pretax interest coverage ratio is 9.17. We also furnish statistics for a
list of variables utilized in various analyses, with further elaboration provided in the empirical sections of the paper.

4. Empirical results

4.1. Vertical integration and corporate yield spreads

    As previously discussed, firms could strategically use vertical integration as an efficient tool for managing supply chain risk.
Vertical integration allows a company to have greater control over its entire supply chain, thereby reducing reliance on external
suppliers and logistics providers. Thus, we anticipate that a more vertically integrated firm can mitigate the potential supply chain
risk, resulting in lower credit spreads. Alternatively, vertical integration comes with the costs of asset specificity, thus may increase
the risk and higher bond yield spreads.
    To empirically test the impact of vertical integration on bond yield spreads, we employ a panel regression approach to regress
yield spreads on vertical integration, along with various control variables.33 The model is specified as follows:

         𝑌 𝑆𝑖,𝑚,𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽𝑉 𝐼𝑖,𝑡 + 𝛾 ′ 𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖,𝑡 + 𝜏𝑡 + 𝜆𝑗 + 𝜖𝑖,𝑚,𝑡                                                                                       (1)

where i indexes bond, j indexes industry, m indexes month and t indexes year. 𝑌 𝑆𝑖,𝑚,𝑡 denotes bond i’s yield spreads in month 𝑚
of year t. Vertical integration (𝑉 𝐼) measures the degree to which a firm provides products or services that are vertically related


  31 This methodology aligns with Bessembinder et al. (2009), which show that a daily price based on trade-size weighted intraday prices is less noisy than the

last price of the day.
  32 The benchmark treasury bond yield is estimated following Gürkaynak et al. (2007), with updates available through the Federal Reserve Bank website.
  33 Petersen (2009) shows that panel regressions with fixed effects enable researchers to enhance the efficiency of estimates and straightforwardly compute

standard errors clustered, making the estimated coefficients and standard errors more robust than those obtained using the traditional Fama-MacBeth framework.


                                                                              9
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                              The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

                Table 1
                Summary Statistics.
                This table reports summary statistics for bond-month observations over the sample period from 2002 to 2020. The descriptive
                statistics include the sample mean, median, standard deviation (Std Dev.), 10th percentile, and 90th percentile of the variables
                used in this study. The main variables include vertical integration and bond yield spreads (%). Vertical integration (VI) measures
                the degree to which a firm provides products or services that are vertically related, as estimated by Frésard et al. (2020).
                Bond yield spread is defined as the difference between corporate bond yield and the corresponding treasury bond yield. Bond
                characteristics include Roll (1984)’s illiquidity measure (%), credit rating, issuing size (in millions), maturity in years and coupon
                rate (%). The bond’s numerical credit rating is determined using the following letter rating conversion scheme: AAA=1, AA+=2,
                . . . , C=21, and D=22. Firm characteristics include long-term debt to assets (Long-Term Debt/Assets), total debt to capitalization
                (Total Debt/Capitalization), operating income to sales (Operating Income/Sales), equity volatility and pretax interest coverage. We
                also include other variables used in our study, including firm-level supply chain risk, Covid risk (estimated during the Covid-19
                Pandemic period), the proportion of imported goods from China (Input China), the proportion of imported differentiated products
                from China (Input China (Diff)), industry-adjusted inventory to assets ratio (Inventory/Assets), and product similarity and product
                pricing power scores. The detailed construction of variables are defined in Appendix A.
                 Variable                               10th Pctl.            Mean               Median              Std Dev.             90th Pctl.
                 Vertical Integration (VI)              0.0025                0.0141             0.0112              0.0115               0.0296
                 Yield Spread (%)                       0.40                  1.60               1.08                2.11                 3.21
                 Illiquidity (%)                        0.09                  1.44               0.78                2.26                 3.29
                 Credit Rating                          4.00                  7.60               8.00                2.88                 10.00
                 Issue Size (in Millions)               200                   593.6              450                 607.7                1,200
                 Maturity (in years)                    2.08                  10.59              7.00                9.04                 26.67
                 Coupon (%)                             2.70                  5.25               5.38                1.88                 7.55
                 Long-Term Debt/Assets                  0.15                  0.30               0.29                0.12                 0.45
                 Total Debt/Capitalization              0.11                  0.32               0.30                0.19                 0.57
                 Operating Income/Sales                 0.09                  0.24               0.23                0.14                 0.42
                 Equity Volatility (%)                  0.18                  0.46               0.39                0.30                 0.82
                 Pretax Interest Coverage               2.75                  9.17               6.09                10.18                18.62
                 Supply Chain Risk                      0.74                  4.20               2.15                7.57                 6.74
                 Covid Risk                             0.00                  0.14               0.10                0.19                 0.38
                 Input China                            0.00                  0.19               0.00                0.34                 0.91
                 Input China (Diff)                     0.00                  0.14               0.00                0.30                 0.75
                 Inventory/Assets                       −0.08                 0.00               0.00                0.07                 0.06
                 Product Similarity                     1.03                  3.74               1.84                4.59                 7.85
                 Product Pricing Power                  0.03                  0.24               0.15                0.25                 0.59




measured at the beginning of the year 𝑡. To account for factors that may affect yield spreads, the analysis includes a set of firm
and bond-level variables, consistent with previous research on bond yield spreads (Campbell & Taksler, 2003; Chen et al., 2007).
The first set of control variables include bond-specific characteristics, including the bond’s illiquidity measure, credit ratings, years
to maturity, issue size, and coupon rate.34 The second set of control variables is related to issuers of the bond: long-term debt
to assets (Long-Term Debt/Assets), total debt to capitalization (Total Debt/Capitalization), operating income to sales (Operating
Income/Sales), equity volatility, and four variables constructed to measure the incremental influence of the pretax interest coverage
(Pretax D1–Pretax D4) using the procedure outlined in Blume et al. (1998).35 Additionally, time (𝜏) fixed effects and industry (𝜆)
fixed effects are included in the regression to account for potential time-series trends and other unobserved firm characteristics,
with regression standard errors clustered by bond issuer and year.36
    Table 2 presents empirical results. In Column (1), we exclusively include 𝑉 𝐼 alongside year and industry fixed effects. Consistent
with Hypothesis 1a, we find a robust and negative coefficient of −14.576 on 𝑉 𝐼, with a t-statistic of −4.93. Given the standard
deviation of 𝑉 𝐼 as 0.0115, a one-standard-deviation increase in 𝑉 𝐼 correlates with an 17 basis points decline in bond yield spreads.
Expanding the model to include bond-level control variables, with and without credit ratings in Column (2) and (3), respectively,
reveals consistent findings. Bond characteristics exhibit substantial explanatory power for corporate bond yield spreads, evidenced by
an increase in adj. 𝑅2 from 20.3% (without bond controls) to 52.5%. The coefficient on 𝑉 𝐼 drops from −14.576 to −3.002, indicating
that the influence of 𝑉 𝐼 on credit spreads is, in part, explained by bond-specific characteristics. Nonetheless, the coefficient remains
negative and highly statistically significant. Coefficients on bond characteristics align with previous literature (Bao et al., 2011;
Chen et al., 2007); for instance, higher bond illiquidity and higher coupon correlate with higher credit spreads.
    In Column (4), we additionally incorporate firm-level control variables and observe that the explanatory power of 𝑉 𝐼 is not
attributable to issuer characteristics. The coefficient on 𝑉 𝐼 is −3.546 with a t-statistic of −2.62. This suggests that even after
controlling for both bond and firm-level control variables, a one-standard-deviation increase in 𝑉 𝐼 is still associated with a 4
basis points decline in yield spreads. To address seasonal time effects, we further introduce month fixed effects in Column (5),


  34 We do not assume that yield spreads are a linear function of credit ratings and use dummy variables as a fixed effect to capture variations across different

rating categories.
  35 For each transaction, we consider the equity data for the 252 days prior to (not including) the bond trade and accounting data for the previous calendar

year.
  36 Consistent with recent studies that examine the effect of firm characteristics on corporate credit spreads (e.g. Nagler, 2020), we control for industry fixed

effects rather than issuer fixed effects because we examine the effect of vertical integration (at the annual frequency) on monthly bond yield spreads.


                                                                                 10
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                                The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

               Table 2
               Vertical Integration and Corporate Yield Spreads.
               This table presents the panel regression results of the effect of vertical integration on corporate yield spreads. The dependent
               variable is the bond yield spread, defined as the difference between corporate bond yield and the corresponding treasury bond
               yield. The main variables of interest is vertical integration (VI) estimated from Frésard et al. (2020). The yield spread determinants
               are based on bond-specific effects (credit ratings, bond illiquidity, maturity in years, issue size and coupon), and firm-specific
               characteristics (long-term debt to assets, total debt to capitalization, operating income to sales, equity volatility and pretax interest
               coverage). The pretax interest coverage is further grouped into one of four categories according to Blume et al. (1998). The
               bond’s numerical credit rating is determined using the following letter rating conversion scheme: AAA=1, AA+=2, . . . , C=21, and
               D=22. We include rating dummy variables as a fixed effect to capture variations across different rating categories. The detailed
               construction of variables are defined in Appendix A. Industry and time fixed effects are included in all regressions and t-values
               based on standard errors clustered at the issuer and year level are reported in parentheses. *, ** or *** denotes the significance
               at the 10%, 5%, or 1% level, respectively.
                                                     (1)                   (2)                    (3)                 (4)                  (5)
                 VI                                  −14.576***            −11.764***             −3.002**            −3.546***            −3.555***
                                                     (−4.93)               (−5.35)                (−2.26)             (−2.62)              (−2.63)
                 Illiquidity                                               0.260***               0.206***            0.198***             0.198***
                                                                           (9.10)                 (8.93)              (8.46)               (8.48)
                 Maturity                                                  −0.012***              0.005***            0.006***             0.006***
                                                                           (−5.85)                (3.63)              (3.69)               (3.71)
                 Ln [Issue Size]                                           −0.057                 0.002               −0.004               −0.005
                                                                           (−1.52)                (0.11)              (−0.22)              (−0.22)
                 Coupon                                                    0.277***               0.085***            0.083***             0.083***
                                                                           (30.04)                (13.66)             (12.89)              (12.85)
                 Long-Term Debt/Assets                                                                                −0.978***            −0.980***
                                                                                                                      (−5.06)              (−5.06)
                 Total Debt/Capitalization                                                                            1.947***             1.949***
                                                                                                                      (8.43)               (8.43)
                 Operating Income/Sales                                                                               −0.017               −0.018
                                                                                                                      (−0.12)              (−0.13)
                 Equity Volatility                                                                                    1.363***             1.363***
                                                                                                                      (3.98)               (3.99)
                 Pretax D1                                                                                            −0.713***            −0.714***
                                                                                                                      (−2.60)              (−2.61)
                 Pretax D2                                                                                            −0.583**             −0.583**
                                                                                                                      (−2.44)              (−2.44)
                 Pretax D3                                                                                            −0.473**             −0.473**
                                                                                                                      (−2.07)              (−2.07)
                 Pretax D4                                                                                            −0.453**             −0.453**
                                                                                                                      (−2.01)              (−2.01)
                 Rating Dummies                      No                    No                     Yes                 Yes                  Yes
                 Year FE                             Yes                   Yes                    Yes                 Yes                  Yes
                 Month FE                            No                    No                     No                  No                   Yes
                 Industry FE                         Yes                   Yes                    Yes                 Yes                  Yes
                 Observations                        393,379               391,035                391,035             381,694              381,694
                 Adj. 𝑅2                             0.203                 0.335                  0.525               0.541                0.542




and the results remain robust. Our findings regarding firm-level control variables align with recent studies such as Campbell and
Taksler (2003) and Nanda et al. (2019). In the subsequent analysis, we employ model 5 from Table 2 as the foundational model to
delve deeper into the mechanism underlying the relationship and assess the effects of vertical integration across different market
conditions.
   In summary, we present robust results indicating a negative effect of vertical integration on bond yield spreads. This suggests
that a firm with a higher degree of vertical integration is associated with lower yield spreads, supporting our Hypothesis 1a.

4.2. Supply chain risk and vertical integration

    Next, we investigate whether the effect of vertical integration on corporate credit spreads is likely manifesting through the supply
risk channel. We posit that if the influence of vertical integration primarily operates via the supply chain risk channel, its effect
should be more prominent in companies grappling with elevated supply chain risk. To quantify firm-level supply chain risk, we
employ textual analysis of earnings conference calls following the methodology outlined by Ersahin et al. (2024).37 Each year, we
classify the firms into three groups based on supply chain risk : high if it exceeds 75th percentile, medium if it falls between the
25th and 75th percentile, and low if it is below 25th percentile. Additionally, we perform an alternative classification based on


  37 To define firm-level supply chain risk, Ersahin et al. (2024) count the number of occurrences of bigrams related to supply chain discussions within a

window of 10 words surrounding a synonym for ‘‘risk’’ or ‘‘uncertainty’’ on either side, in the earnings performed during year 𝑡, and divide by the total number
of bigrams in the transcript.


                                                                                  11
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                              The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

               Table 3
               Supply Chain Risk and the Vertical Integration Effect.
               This table presents the panel regression results of the effect of vertical integration on corporate yield spreads sorted by supply chain
               risk. The dependent variable is the bond yield spread, defined as the difference between corporate bond yield and the corresponding
               treasury bond yield. The main variables of interest is vertical integration (VI) estimated from Frésard et al. (2020). We categorize the
               samples into three groups, considering both firm-level and industry supply chain risks (Ersahin et al., 2024). Specifically, firms are
               classified into three groups based on their individual supply chain risk: high if it exceeds 75%, medium if it falls between 25% and
               75%, and low if it is below 25%. Additionally, an alternative classification is conducted based on industry supply chain risk. Industries
               ranking within the top 10 in overall supply chain risk are designated as high-risk, while those in the bottom 10 are classified as
               low-risk. The remaining industries fall into the medium-risk category. The yield spread determinants are based on bond-specific effects
               (credit ratings, bond illiquidity, maturity in years, issue size and coupon), and firm-specific characteristics (long-term debt to assets,
               total debt to capitalization, operating income to sales, equity volatility and pretax interest coverage). The pretax interest coverage is
               further grouped into one of four categories according to Blume et al. (1998). We include rating dummy variables as a fixed effect to
               capture variations across different rating categories. The detailed construction of variables are defined in Appendix A. Industry and time
               fixed effects are included in all regressions and t-values based on standard errors clustered at the issuer and year level are reported in
               parentheses. *, ** or *** denotes the significance at the 10%, 5%, or 1% level, respectively.
                                                 Firm Supply Chain Risk                                 Industry Supply Chain Risk
                                                 (1)                (2)                (3)              (4)               (5)               (6)
                                                 High               Medium             Low              High              Medium            Low
                VI                               −5.365***          −3.248**           −3.172*          −5.161**          −4.623***         −1.318
                                                 (−3.20)            (−2.06)            (−1.94)          (−2.28)           (−2.66)           (−0.52)
                Illiquidity                      0.122***           0.217***           0.119***         0.357***          0.140***          0.108***
                                                 (7.19)             (3.70)             (12.90)          (4.91)            (17.02)           (13.59)
                Maturity                         0.013***           0.007**            0.013***         −0.003            0.006***          0.006***
                                                 (7.82)             (2.01)             (8.52)           (−0.50)           (6.40)            (5.09)
                Ln [Issue Size]                  −0.067***          −0.019             −0.083***        0.088**           −0.051**          −0.129***
                                                 (−3.19)            (−0.97)            (−2.69)          (2.41)            (−2.18)           (−4.31)
                Coupon                           0.088***           0.071***           0.102***         0.054***          0.085***          0.107***
                                                 (9.69)             (6.25)             (12.68)          (3.25)            (16.81)           (11.94)
                Long-Term Debt/Assets            −0.484**           −0.901***          −0.391*          −1.223***         −0.452**          −0.729**
                                                 (−2.41)            (−2.82)            (−1.70)          (−2.98)           (−2.56)           (−2.44)
                Total Debt/Capitalization        1.852***           2.485***           1.792***         2.815***          1.574***          1.219***
                                                 (5.29)             (5.25)             (7.02)           (4.73)            (6.74)            (3.86)
                Operating Income/Sales           −0.300             0.115              −0.136           −0.131            −0.327***         −0.073
                                                 (−1.38)            (0.66)             (−0.80)          (−0.15)           (−2.71)           (−0.21)
                Equity Volatility                1.140***           1.248*             1.687***         1.071             1.656***          1.038***
                                                 (5.50)             (1.85)             (6.27)           (1.43)            (6.63)            (2.78)
                Pretax D1                        −0.456**           −0.424***          −0.352**         −1.076            −0.605***         −0.302
                                                 (−2.19)            (−2.86)            (−1.96)          (−1.28)           (−4.24)           (−0.68)
                Pretax D2                        −0.385**           −0.298**           −0.272*          −0.760            −0.579***         −0.147
                                                 (−2.15)            (−2.18)            (−1.73)          (−1.11)           (−4.52)           (−0.34)
                Pretax D3                        −0.307*            −0.226*            −0.087           −0.553            −0.457***         −0.070
                                                 (−1.88)            (−1.67)            (−0.58)          (−0.89)           (−3.65)           (−0.16)
                Pretax D4                        −0.304*            −0.184             −0.100           −0.446            −0.469***         −0.251
                                                 (−1.92)            (−1.36)            (−0.67)          (−0.84)           (−3.66)           (−0.57)
                Rating Dummies                   Yes                Yes                Yes              Yes               Yes               Yes
                Year FE                          Yes                Yes                Yes              Yes               Yes               Yes
                Month FE                         Yes                Yes                Yes              Yes               Yes               Yes
                Industry FE                      Yes                Yes                Yes              Yes               Yes               Yes
                Observations                     65,626             151,003            64,317           93,442            236,644           51,608
                Adj. 𝑅2                          0.665              0.566              0.680            0.564             0.576             0.675




industry-level supply chain risk by estimating the average risk for each two-digit SIC industry per year and then calculating the
time-series average over the sample period. We rank industries based on their industry-year average supply chain risk, with the top
10 industries in overall supply chain risk designated as high-risk and the bottom 10 as low-risk.38 The remaining industries fall into
the medium-risk category.
    Regression results are reported in Table 3. Columns (1) to (3) present findings sorted by firm-level supply chain risk, while
Columns (4) to (6) display results sorted by industry-level supply chain risk. Notably, we observe a more pronounced vertical
integration effect for firms facing elevated supply chain risk. In Column (1), the coefficient on 𝑉 𝐼 stands at −5.365, significant at
the 1% level. By contrast, for the medium supply chain risk group, the 𝑉 𝐼 coefficient is −3.248 (𝑡-value = −2.06), and for the low
supply chain risk group, it is −3.172 (𝑡-value = −1.94), suggesting a weakened 𝑉 𝐼 effect for firms subject to moderate and lower
supply chain risk. These outcomes align with our conjecture, indicating that vertical integration can effectively lower risk premium
through the supply chain risk channel. For firms facing higher supply chain risk, vertical integration can be a more efficient strategy
to manage and mitigate this risk. In contrast, for firms with relatively low supply chain risk, the role of vertical integration becomes


 38   The top 10 and bottom 10 industries in terms of overall supply chain risk are listed in the Appendix Table B.2.


                                                                                  12
Y. Li et al.                                                                                         The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

less significant in managing supply chain risk. Thus, the impact of vertical integration on credit spreads is more pronounced when
channeled through the supply chain risk. To reinforce our findings, we conduct a further analysis on 𝑉 𝐼 sorted by industry supply
chain risk groups. In Columns (4) to (6), we identify negative and significant coefficients on 𝑉 𝐼 for firms in high and medium
supply chain risk industries. Conversely, the effect is statistically insignificant for industries characterized by low supply chain risk.
This once again substantiates our hypothesis, emphasizing the heightened relevance of vertical integration when supply chain risk
is more pronounced.

4.3. Other potential risk channels

    The preceding analysis lends support for the supply chain risk channel in explaining the vertical integration effect. However,
this might not rule out other potential risk channels could intersect with the vertical integration effect on corporate yield spreads.
Specifically, the impact of vertical integration on reduction in supply chain risk could be associated with lower credit risk and
liquidity risk. To delve into these alternative risk channels, we focus on two main risk factors: bond credit risk and illiquidity risk.
Drawing from the findings of Huang and Huang (2012), which assert that credit risk contributes one third of credit spreads, along
with studies by Chen et al. (2007) and Bao et al. (2011) indicating that bond liquidity can explain a comparable portion of credit
spreads, we categorize bonds into groups according to their credit and liquidity risk profiles.
    The credit risk is proxied by a bond’s credit rating, categorizing bonds into groups with high credit risk (ratings of BB+ or below),
medium credit risk (ratings between BBB- to A+), and low credit risk (ratings of AA- or above). Alternatively, each month, bonds
are classified into three groups based on Roll’s bond illiquidity measure: high bond illiquidity risk if it exceeds 75%, medium if it
falls between 25% and 75%, and low if it is below 25%.
    Columns (1) – (3) of Table 4 show results categorized into three rating groups. Interestingly, the most pronounced effect of 𝑉 𝐼
is observed within the medium credit risk group, with a coefficient of −2.813, significant at the 1% level. Although the coefficient
on 𝑉 𝐼 for the high credit risk group has the largest magnitude, it lacks statistical significance. For the low credit risk group, the
coefficient is negative at −3.077 but also statistically insignificant. These outcomes suggest that the role of 𝑉 𝐼 is stronger among
firms with a medium credit risk profile. In instances where a bond holds a non-investment grade rating, the risk mitigation effect of
vertical integration might be overshadowed by heightened credit risk. Conversely, when a firm faces low credit risk, the contribution
of vertical integration to further risk reduction appears limited. This observation aligns with Longstaff et al. (2005), illustrating
that the risk premium of highly rated investment-grade bonds is predominantly determined by credit risk. Another noteworthy
observation is that the medium credit risk group comprises approximately 80% of the entire sample in our dataset, while the low
and high credit risk Group each account for about 10%. This distribution suggests that the reduction effect of 𝑉 𝐼 on yield spreads
holds both economic and statistical significance for the vast majority of the sample.
    Columns (4) to (6) present results sorted into three bond illiquidity groups. We observe the most substantial 𝑉 𝐼 effect within the
high bond illiquidity group, with a coefficient of −5.941 (𝑡-value = −3.03). This translates to a 7 bps reduction in credit spreads for
a one-standard-deviation increase in 𝑉 𝐼. In contrast, the coefficient estimates on 𝑉 𝐼 decrease to −2.431 and −2.552 for the medium
and low illiquidity groups, respectively. These findings suggest that the 𝑉 𝐼 effect on credit spreads may also operate through the
liquidity risk channel, with the most substantial negative 𝑉 𝐼 effect observed in the high illiquidity group. Additionally, statistical
significance is observed at the 1% level across all bond illiquidity groups, indicating that the negative 𝑉 𝐼 effect is robust across
various levels of bond liquidity risk.

5. Global supply chain disruptions

    In this section, we examine the impact of vertical integration on credit spreads during global chain disruptions for two purposes:
On the one hand, with the evolution of global supply chains, firms often rely on each other for specific components, technologies,
or materials, fostering a highly interconnected global economy. However, such interconnectedness of global supply chains exposes
vulnerabilities in production strategies and supply chains (Chopra & Sodhi, 2014), with disruptions potentially leading to significant
costs and business standstills. We are interested to test whether a higher degree of vertical integration respond better to market
changes or disruptions in the supply chain under such conditions. On the other hand, exogenous global supply chain shocks, like
Covid-19 and the U.S.-China trade war, offer a (quasi-)natural experiment to mitigate endogeneity concerns in assessing the link
between firm vertical integration and bond yield spreads. These disruptions, beyond the control or influence of individual firms,
result in firms not being able to immediately adjust their organizational structures ahead of them, thus enabling us to isolate the
impact of vertical integration on bond market perceptions. Applying such events provides a clearer understanding of how vertical
integration influences firm risk and bond yields.

5.1. Covid-19 pandemic crisis

   First, we investigate the role of vertical integration on corporate credit spreads during the Covid-19 pandemic crisis. The
pandemic significantly disrupted entire supply chains, with lockdown, quarantine measures, and movement restrictions leading to
the closure of numerous factories and production facilities worldwide. To assess the vertical integration effect during the pandemic
period, we include the interaction term between 𝑉 𝐼 and Covid-19 pandemic (𝐶𝑜𝑣𝑖𝑑) dummy variable into the Eq. (1). The pandemic
period is defined as from February to April of 2020. The main variable of interest is the interaction term between 𝑉 𝐼 and 𝐶𝑜𝑣𝑖𝑑.

                                                                   13
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                            The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

               Table 4
               The Vertical Integration Effect Sorted by Credit Risk and Illiquidity Risk.
               This table presents the panel regression results of the effect of vertical integration on corporate yield spreads sorted by bond
               credit risk and illiquidity risk. The dependent variable is the bond yield spread, defined as the difference between corporate
               bond yield and the corresponding treasury bond yield. The main variables of interest is vertical integration (VI) estimated from
               Frésard et al. (2020). We categorize the sample into three groups, considering both bond credit risk and illiquidity risk (Chen
               et al., 2007; Huang & Huang, 2012). Specifically, bond are classified into three groups based on their credit ratings: high credit
               risk with credit ratings of BB+ or below, medium credit risk with ratings between BBB- to A+, and low credit risk with ratings
               of AA- or above. Alternatively, bonds are sorted into three groups based on Roll (1984)’s bond illiquidity measure: high if it
               exceeds 75%, medium if it falls between 25% and 75%, and low if it is below 25%. The yield spread determinants are based on
               bond-specific effects (credit ratings, bond illiquidity, maturity in years, issue size and coupon), and firm-specific characteristics
               (long-term debt to assets, total debt to capitalization, operating income to sales, equity volatility and pretax interest coverage).
               The pretax interest coverage is further grouped into one of four categories according to Blume et al. (1998). We include rating
               dummy variables as a fixed effect to capture variations across different rating categories. The detailed construction of variables
               are defined in Appendix A. Industry and time fixed effects are included in all regressions and t-values based on standard errors
               clustered at the issuer and year level are reported in parentheses. *, ** or *** denotes the significance at the 10%, 5%, or 1%
               level, respectively.
                                                 Credit Risk                                        Bond Illiquidity Risk
                                                 (1)               (2)               (3)            (4)               (5)              (6)
                                                 High              Medium            Low            High              Medium           Low
                 VI                              −5.478            −2.813***         −3.077         −5.941***         −2.413***        −2.552***
                                                 (−0.56)           (−3.67)           (−0.84)        (−3.03)           (−3.86)          (−3.25)
                 Illiquidity                     0.312***          0.092***          0.031***       0.238***          0.468***         0.423***
                                                 (5.32)            (14.21)           (5.15)         (15.15)           (26.27)          (7.86)
                 Maturity                        −0.033***         0.012***          0.015***       −0.009***         0.008***         0.017***
                                                 (−2.96)           (18.66)           (14.85)        (−4.42)           (10.99)          (17.01)
                 Ln [Issue Size]                 0.049             −0.077***         0.019          0.087***          0.017            −0.093***
                                                 (0.63)            (−7.68)           (1.51)         (2.62)            (1.56)           (−6.75)
                 Coupon                          0.160***          0.103***          0.065***       0.054***          0.075***         0.095***
                                                 (4.49)            (30.98)           (16.52)        (4.00)            (16.42)          (20.31)
                 Long-Term Debt/Assets           −3.910***         −0.097            0.139          −1.897***         −0.596***        −0.910***
                                                 (−4.77)           (−1.07)           (0.99)         (−7.65)           (−8.24)          (−8.80)
                 Total Debt/Capitalization       3.983***          1.108***          1.158**        2.583***          1.638***         1.976***
                                                 (6.04)            (8.63)            (2.14)         (9.40)            (17.93)          (18.19)
                 Operating Income/Sales          −0.432            −0.082            0.936***       0.258*            −0.044           −0.249***
                                                 (−0.69)           (−0.69)           (4.05)         (1.88)            (−0.81)          (−3.36)
                 Equity Volatility               0.567             1.097***          0.908***       1.590***          1.210***         1.199***
                                                 (0.86)            (8.49)            (4.04)         (7.19)            (13.98)          (8.76)
                 Pretax D1                       −1.298            −0.275***         −0.158         −1.323***         −0.449***        −0.512***
                                                 (−1.46)           (−3.98)           (−1.02)        (−5.34)           (−6.84)          (−5.89)
                 Pretax D2                       −0.826            −0.256***         −0.010         −1.169***         −0.387***        −0.350***
                                                 (−1.06)           (−4.03)           (−0.17)        (−5.09)           (−6.60)          (−4.78)
                 Pretax D3                       −1.588**          −0.186***         0.044          −1.081***         −0.300***        −0.230***
                                                 (−2.08)           (−2.95)           (0.76)         (−4.76)           (−5.34)          (−3.34)
                 Pretax D4                       0.255             −0.158**          0.071          −1.113***         −0.265***        −0.182***
                                                 (0.28)            (−2.42)           (1.24)         (−4.83)           (−4.72)          (−2.71)
                 Rating Dummies                  Yes               Yes               Yes            Yes               Yes              Yes
                 Year FE                         Yes               Yes               Yes            Yes               Yes              Yes
                 Month FE                        Yes               Yes               Yes            Yes               Yes              Yes
                 Industry FE                     Yes               Yes               Yes            Yes               Yes              Yes
                 Observations                    37,487            304,069           40,138         94,894            190,637          96,163
                 Adj. 𝑅2                         0.474             0.504             0.534          0.546             0.565            0.549




    As shown in Column (1) of Table 5, the coefficient on 𝑉 𝐼 is negative and significant, suggesting that a higher degree of 𝑉 𝐼 is
associated with lower yield spreads during non-pandemic period, consistent with our prior findings. More importantly, the coefficient
on the interaction term of 𝑉 𝐼 * 𝐶𝑜𝑣𝑖𝑑 is −2.786 with a 𝑡-value of −2.47. Specifically, a one-standard-deviation increase in 𝑉 𝐼 results
in 7 bps lower yield spreads during the pandemic period. Our findings underscore the heightened importance of vertical integration
in mitigating credit spreads during supply chain disruptions.
    We extend our analysis to investigate the impact of 𝑉 𝐼 under different levels of firm-level Covid-19 risk. Following the
methodology of Hassan et al. (2023), firm-level Covid-19 risk is measured using transcripts from quarterly earnings conference call
from February to April of 2020.39 This measure reflects the degree of risk a firm associated with the spread of Covid-19, allowing
us to explore whether the effect of vertical integration varies for firms with higher Covid risk exposure during the pandemic. Our
sample comprises 686 firms, 334 of which can be identified with Covid risk. We then perform a panel regression, including the


  39 This measure is constructed by analyzing the text of earning call transcripts to identify mentions of Covid-19 in proximity to terms related to risk or

uncertainty. The data on firm-level Covid-19 risk is obtained from www.firmlevelrisk.com. We thank Tarek Hassan, Stephan Hollander, Laurence van Lent, Markus
Schwedeler, and Ahmed Tahoun for making the data available.


                                                                                14
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                               The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

               Table 5
               The Vertical Integration Effect in Covid-19 Pandemic.
               This table presents the panel regression results of the interaction effect between vertical integration and the Covid-19 pandemic
               on corporate yield spreads. The dependent variable is the bond yield spread, defined as the difference between corporate bond
               yield and the corresponding treasury bond yield. The main variable of interest is the interaction term between vertical integration
               (VI) and Covid-19 pandemic period (Covid). The pandemic period is defined as from February to April of 2020. Firm Covid-19
               risk (Covid Risk) is estimated from transcripts of earnings call during the Covid-19 pandemic period (Hassan et al., 2023). Firm
               supply chain risk is estimated from transcripts of earnings call following Ersahin et al. (2024). The yield spread determinants
               are based on bond-specific effects (credit ratings, bond illiquidity, maturity in years, issue size and coupon), and firm-specific
               characteristics (long-term debt to assets, total debt to capitalization, operating income to sales, equity volatility and pretax interest
               coverage). The pretax interest coverage is further grouped into one of four categories according to Blume et al. (1998). The
               detailed construction of variables are defined in Appendix A. Industry and time fixed effects are included in all regressions and
               t-values based on standard errors clustered at the issuer and year level are reported in parentheses. *, ** or *** denotes the
               significance at the 10%, 5%, or 1% level, respectively.
                                                                        (1)                              (2)                               (3)
                VI                                                      −3.538***                        −3.265**                          −2.350**
                                                                        (−2.60)                          (−2.38)                           (−2.32)
                VI * Covid                                              −2.786**                                                           −1.622**
                                                                        (−2.47)                                                            (−2.13)
                VI * Covid Risk                                                                          −35.190***
                                                                                                         (−3.16)
                VI * Covid * Supply Chain Risk                                                                                             −0.164**
                                                                                                                                           (−2.22)
                VI * Supply Chain Risk                                                                                                     −0.177**
                                                                                                                                           (−2.39)
                Covid * Supply Chain Risk                                                                                                  0.003*
                                                                                                                                           (1.94)
                Covid                                                   0.630***                         0.642***                          0.624***
                                                                        (7.40)                           (10.68)                           (6.06)
                Covid Risk                                                                               0.32**
                                                                                                         (2.18)
                Supply Chain Risk                                                                                                          0.002**
                                                                                                                                           (2.31)
                Illiquidity                                             0.197***                         0.196***                          0.174***
                                                                        (8.42)                           (8.03)                            (5.10)
                Maturity                                                0.006***                         0.006***                          0.010***
                                                                        (3.76)                           (3.80)                            (4.91)
                Ln [Issue Size]                                         −0.005                           −0.005                            −0.034
                                                                        (−0.25)                          (−0.25)                           (−1.43)
                Coupon                                                  0.083***                         0.083***                          0.082***
                                                                        (12.82)                          (12.56)                           (11.49)
                Long-Term Debt/Assets                                   −0.984***                        −0.993***                         −0.657***
                                                                        (−5.08)                          (−4.99)                           (−3.54)
                Total Debt/Capitalization                               1.952***                         1.949***                          2.034***
                                                                        (8.42)                           (8.21)                            (7.43)
                Operating Income/Sales                                  −0.016                           0.007                             −0.068
                                                                        (−0.11)                          (0.05)                            (−0.55)
                Equity Volatility                                       1.359***                         1.324***                          1.298***
                                                                        (3.97)                           (3.74)                            (2.91)
                Pretax D1                                               −0.723***                        −0.752**                          −0.381***
                                                                        (−2.63)                          (−2.47)                           (−3.29)
                Pretax D2                                               −0.591**                         −0.621**                          −0.286***
                                                                        (−2.46)                          (−2.33)                           (−2.72)
                Pretax D3                                               −0.480**                         −0.511**                          −0.200**
                                                                        (−2.09)                          (−2.01)                           (−1.99)
                Pretax D4                                               −0.459**                         −0.493*                           −0.183*
                                                                        (−2.03)                          (−1.96)                           (−1.89)
                Rating Dummies                                          Yes                              Yes                               Yes
                Year FE                                                 Yes                              Yes                               Yes
                Month FE                                                Yes                              Yes                               Yes
                Industry FE                                             Yes                              Yes                               Yes
                Observations                                            381,694                          280,946                           381,182
                Adj. 𝑅2                                                 0.543                            0.539                             0.591




interaction term between Covid risk and 𝑉 𝐼 in the baseline regression. The results are reported in Column (2). Consistent with the
previous findings, we observe a stronger 𝑉 𝐼 effect for firms subject to higher Covid risk. When both 𝑉 𝐼 and Covid risk increase by
one-standard-deviation, the yield spreads decease by an additional 8 bps (−35.19 * 0.0115 * 0.19).
    The Covid-19 pandemic caused simultaneous disruptions in demand, supply, and logistic infrastructure, setting it apart from
classical disruption risks that typically affect either supply or demand but not both. To explore whether the impact of 𝑉 𝐼 is more
pronounced for firms confronted with heightened supply chain risk during the pandemic, we use the triple-interaction term involving

                                                                                   15
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                       The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

vertical integration, a 𝐶𝑜𝑣𝑖𝑑 pandemic dummy, and firm supply chain risk in Column (3). The key finding is that the coefficient
on this triple-interaction term is negative and significant, suggesting that vertical integration plays a more crucial role for firms
with higher supply chain risk in reducing yield spreads during the pandemic period. Additionally, the coefficient on the interaction
between 𝐶𝑜𝑣𝑖𝑑 and supply chain risk is positive, indicating that investors demand a higher risk premium for firms subject to greater
supply chain risk. Consistent with the findings presented in Table 3, we find that a higher level of 𝑉 𝐼 is associated with lower yield
spreads for firms facing higher supply chain risk during non-pandemic periods.

5.2. U.S.-China trade war

    Next, we explore the impact of vertical integration on corporate credit spreads during the U.S.-China trade war. Global supply
chains are typically established in anticipation of free trade. However, the U.S. government’s imposition of input tariffs surprised the
industries heavily reliant on imported goods, resulting in additional cost such as renegotiation with existing suppliers or searching
for alternative suppliers (Grossman et al., 2024). In this section, we investigate whether the U.S.-China trade war disproportionately
affect more vertically integrated U.S. firms, especially those that depend significantly on imports from China.
    Since 2018, the U.S. government has been engaged in an unprecedented trade war, characterized by widespread tariffs imposed
on its trading partners, particularly China.40 This event of considerable magnitude is unparalleled in the post-war era and has a
significant impact for the global supply chain Benguria and Saffie (2023), Fajgelbaum et al. (2020), Huang et al. (2023). To examine
the role of vertical integration on corporate credit spreads during the U.S.-China trade war, we introduce the interaction term
between 𝑉 𝐼 and trade war indicator variables into the Eq. (1). Specifically, we examine two distinct phases of the U.S.-China trade
war. In the initial phase, the Trump administration issued a presidential memorandum on March 22, 2018, proposing significant
tariffs on over $50 billion of Chinese imports.41 The scope and value of targeted Chinese products expanded with subsequent tariff
waves implemented in July and September, targeting $200 billion Chinese products.42 In this study, the initial phase (TW Phase 1)
spans from March to June 2018, while the second phase (TW Phase 2) ranges from July to October 2018.
    We examine the interaction effect between 𝑉 𝐼 and these two phases separately in Column (1) and Column (2) of Table 6. First,
we find that the coefficients on 𝑉 𝐼 in both columns are negative and statistically significant at the 5% level, confirming that a
higher degree of 𝑉 𝐼 is associated with lower spreads. Second, the coefficient on the interaction term 𝑉 𝐼 * 𝑇 𝑊 𝑃 ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒 1 is negative
at −2.801, with a t-statistic of −2.22. This suggests that, during the initial phase of the U.S.-China trade war, the reduction in yield
spreads for firms with a higher degree of vertical integration is more pronounced. By contrast, the coefficient on 𝑉 𝐼 * 𝑇 𝑊 𝑃 ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒
2 is neither economically nor statistically significant. This implies that the impact of the trade war on bond pricing is primarily
concentrated during the first phase. Subsequent analyses will consequently center on the interaction effect between 𝑉 𝐼 and 𝑇 𝑊
𝑃 ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒 1 under various scenarios.
    Since the U.S. government imposed higher tariffs on certain imported goods from China, we anticipate a more pronounced
interaction effect between vertical integration and the trade war for U.S. firms that depend on imports from China. As such, we
use the proportion of imported input from China as a proxy for firms’ exposure to the U.S.-China trade war. Previous studies (e.g.
Huang et al., 2023) have shown that the tariffs imposed by the U.S. government directly impact firms with a greater reliance on
imported goods from China.43 Additionally, the trade war’s effect is particularly concentrated among U.S. firms that outsource to
Chinese suppliers for differentiated inputs.
    To assess a firm’s exposure to the trade war, we follow Huang et al. (2023) and estimate the percentage of imported products
from China using U.S. bill of lading and USA Trade Online datasets. Specifically, we calculate the ratio of a firm’s inputs from China
to its total imported input for the year 2017, which precedes the onset of the trade war.44 Next, we analyze the triple interaction
between 𝑉 𝐼, 𝑇 𝑊 Phase 1, and 𝐼𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡 𝐶ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑎, with the results reported in Column (3).45 The coefficient of our main variable of
interest is −27.257, significant at the 5% level. As expected, a high degree of vertical integration is associated with lower yield
spreads for firms with a higher reliance on imported Chinese goods during the trade war. In addition, the interaction term between
𝑉 𝐼 and TW Phase 1 becomes insignificant, indicating that the negative interaction effect shown in Column (1) is primarily driven
by U.S. firms that depend on imports from China. Moreover, the positive coefficient on 𝑇 𝑊 Phase 1 ∗ 𝐼𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡 𝐶ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑎 indicates that
bond investors require higher risk premium for firms relying on Chinese inputs during the trade war period.
    As a robustness check, we further investigate U.S. firms that have purchased differentiated products from China. Using the
detailed product categories in the lading database and the definition of product differentiation introduced by Rauch (1999), we
follow Huang et al. (2023) to construct the measure of 𝐼𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡 𝐶ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑎 (𝐷𝑖𝑓 𝑓 ). This measure, defined as the average exposure to inputs
from China across suppliers with differentiated product inputs, captures the share of a U.S. firm’s differentiated goods imported
from China in 2017. Consistent with the results observed in Column(3), the coefficient of the triple interaction term escalates to
−36.14 (t-stat = −2.28), indicating that the negative 𝑉 𝐼 effect on bond yield spreads is more pronounced for firms that import
differentiated goods from China.


  40 In response, China and other U.S. trading partners have imposed retaliatory tariffs on U.S. exports. For instance, between April and September of 2018,

China implemented retaliatory tariffs on U.S. goods, collectively covering over $92 billion (6% of annual U.S. exports) across 7,474 products.
  41 Huang et al. (2023) focus on a significant event: the March 22, 2018 announcement of U.S. tariffs on a substantial portion of Chinese imports. Their

findings show that U.S. firms with higher dependencies on exports to and imports from China experience larger declines in market value.
  42 As shown in Fajgelbaum et al. (2020), tariffs on China targeted 11,207 imported products worth $247 billion, and increased tariffs, on average, from 3.0%

to 15.5%. A total of 48.8% of imports from China were targeted with tariff increases.
  43 Our focus is specifically on the offshoring of capital goods and intermediate goods, excluding any imported final goods.
  44 As of 2017, 38% of the sample firms reported positive imports from China, with these imports accounting for an average of 19% of their total imported

inputs.
  45 Considering that the input from China is estimated from the year 2017, we focus on the effect of 𝐼𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡 𝐶ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑎 conditional on the trade war period.



                                                                             16
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                             The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

               Table 6
               The Vertical Integration Effect in U.S-China Trade War.
               This table presents the panel regression results of the interaction effect between vertical integration and the U.S.-China trade
               war on corporate yield spreads. The dependent variable is the bond yield spread, defined as the difference between corporate
               bond yield and the corresponding treasury bond yield. The main variable of interest is the interaction term between vertical
               integration (VI) and trade war indicator variables. We examine two distinct phases of the U.S.-China trade war. The initial phase
               (TW Phase 1) spans from March to June 2018, while the second phase (TW Phase 2) ranges from July to October 2018. The yield
               spread determinants are based on bond-specific effects (credit ratings, bond illiquidity, maturity in years, issue size and coupon),
               and firm-specific characteristics (long-term debt to assets, total debt to capitalization, operating income to sales, equity volatility
               and pretax interest coverage). The pretax interest coverage is further grouped into one of four categories according to Blume
               et al. (1998). Input China is the proportion of the estimated value of imported goods from China to the total estimated value
               of imported goods from the world in 2017, and Input China (Diff) is the ratio of the estimated value of imported differentiated
               products from China to the total estimated value of imported goods in 2017 (Huang et al., 2023). The detailed construction
               of variables are defined in Appendix A. Industry and time fixed effects are included in all regressions and t-values based on
               standard errors clustered at the issuer and year level are reported in parentheses. *, ** or *** denotes the significance at the
               10%, 5%, or 1% level, respectively.
                                                                    (1)                    (2)                    (3)                    (4)
                VI                                                  −3.050**               −3.102**               −3.042**               −3.039**
                                                                    (−2.19)                (−2.24)                (−2.15)                (−2.13)
                VI * TW Phase 1                                     −2.801**                                      0.182                  −0.034
                                                                    (−2.22)                                       (0.04)                 (−0.01)
                VI * TW Phase 2                                                            −0.245
                                                                                           (−0.20)
                VI * TW Phase 1 * Input China                                                                     −27.257**
                                                                                                                  (−2.16)
                VI * TW Phase 1 * Input China (Diff)                                                                                     −36.140**
                                                                                                                                         (−2.28)
                TW Phase 1 * Input China                                                                          0.231**
                                                                                                                  (1.98)
                TW Phase 1 * Input China (Diff)                                                                                          0.310**
                                                                                                                                         (2.22)
                TW Phase 1                                          −0.002                                        −0.029                 −0.028
                                                                    (−0.10)                                       (−0.46)                (−0.45)
                TW Phase 2                                                                 −0.019
                                                                                           (−1.10)
                Illiquidity                                         0.224***               0.224***               0.224***               0.224***
                                                                    (7.14)                 (7.13)                 (7.14)                 (7.14)
                Maturity                                            0.007***               0.007***               0.007***               0.007***
                                                                    (3.93)                 (3.93)                 (3.93)                 (3.93)
                Ln [Issue Size]                                     0.028                  0.028                  0.028                  0.028
                                                                    (0.98)                 (0.98)                 (0.98)                 (0.98)
                Coupon                                              0.076***               0.076***               0.076***               0.076***
                                                                    (9.33)                 (9.33)                 (9.34)                 (9.34)
                Long-Term Debt/Assets                               −0.915***              −0.914***              −0.916***              −0.917***
                                                                    (−3.71)                (−3.70)                (−3.71)                (−3.71)
                Total Debt/Capitalization                           1.983***               1.984***               1.984***               1.985***
                                                                    (6.90)                 (6.91)                 (6.91)                 (6.91)
                Operating Income/Sales                              0.217                  0.217                  0.217                  0.217
                                                                    (1.27)                 (1.27)                 (1.27)                 (1.27)
                Equity Volatility                                   1.634***               1.635***               1.634***               1.634***
                                                                    (3.83)                 (3.83)                 (3.83)                 (3.83)
                Pretax D1                                           −0.861**               −0.862**               −0.861**               −0.861**
                                                                    (−2.14)                (−2.14)                (−2.14)                (−2.14)
                Pretax D2                                           −0.677**               −0.677**               −0.676**               −0.677**
                                                                    (−1.99)                (−1.99)                (−1.99)                (−1.99)
                Pretax D3                                           −0.538*                −0.538*                −0.538*                −0.538*
                                                                    (−1.69)                (−1.69)                (−1.69)                (−1.69)
                Pretax D4                                           −0.535*                −0.535*                −0.535*                −0.534*
                                                                    (−1.71)                (−1.71)                (−1.71)                (−1.71)
                Rating Dummies                                      Yes                    Yes                    Yes                    Yes
                Year FE                                             Yes                    Yes                    Yes                    Yes
                Month FE                                            Yes                    Yes                    Yes                    Yes
                Industry FE                                         Yes                    Yes                    Yes                    Yes
                Observations                                        311,204                311,204                311,204                311,204
                Adj. 𝑅2                                             0.523                  0.523                  0.523                  0.523




                                                                                 17
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                            The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

6. Extended analyses

6.1. Vertical integration and firm inventory

    Vertical integration plays a crucial role in inventory management within a supply chain by transforming inter-firm information
sharing into intra-firm information sharing. By ensuring internal knowledge access (Monteverde, 1995) and enhancing information
integrity and transparency (Lin et al., 2014; Williamson, 1979), vertical integration enables more accurate demand forecasting and
inventory planning (Wan & Sanders, 2017). This leads to more efficient inventory levels, reducing the likelihood of excess inventory
because highly vertically integrated firms may not carry excessive safety stock to guard against supply uncertainties (Syntetos et al.,
2009). In this subsection, we examine the interaction effect between vertical integration and firm inventory on corporate yield
spreads and further analyze this interaction effect amid supply chain disruptions.
    Considering inventory levels vary significantly across industries, we use the industry-adjusted inventory to assets ratio from the
quarter preceding each monthly bond observation to gauge a firm’s inventory level over time. We define a firm’s inventory level
as high (low) by setting a dummy variable to 1 when the industry-adjusted inventory to assets ratio lies within the top (bottom)
quartile of the sample for each month, and 0 otherwise. Next, we include the interaction term between vertical integration and the
high/low inventory dummies in the baseline regression. Regression results are reported in Column (1) and (2) of Table 7. We find
that the interaction term with the high inventory dummy (High INVT) is positive but insignificant, while the interaction term with
the low inventory dummy (Low INVT) is negative and significant. With a one-standard-deviation increase in 𝑉 𝐼 for firms with low
inventory, there is an additional reduction of yield spreads by 6 bps (−5.591 * 0.0115) compared to other firms. This indicates
that vertical integration plays a more substantial role for firms with low inventory levels, suggesting that vertical integration can
improve inventory management efficiency and further reduce the risk premium. In contrast, for firms with high inventory levels,
the effect of vertical integration is not significantly different from that of other firms.
    Next, we further examine this interaction effect amid supply chain disruptions. To investigate this issue, we use a triple-
interaction term involving vertical integration, the high/low inventory dummies, and supply chain disruption indicators (𝐶𝑜𝑣𝑖𝑑
and TW Phase 1). We report the results with 𝐶𝑜𝑣𝑖𝑑 in Columns (3) and (4) of Table 7 and the results with U.S.-China Trade
War in Columns (5) and (6). Interestingly, we find a positive coefficient on the triple interaction term with Covid, but a negative
coefficient with the U.S.-China Trade War for low inventory firms. The opposite effect is likely due to the different nature of these two
disruptions. During the Covid pandemic, the entire supply chain was disrupted. Even for firms that are more vertically integrated,
those with low inventory levels may still have difficulty replenishing needed inventory. This can result in supply shortages, leading
investors to demand a higher premium. In contrast, the U.S.-China trade war led to high tariffs between the two countries, resulting
in higher supply chain costs. Although this situation caused supply chain disruptions, the global supply chain system continued
to function, albeit at a higher cost. In this scenario, vertically integrated firms could quickly adapt to disruptions and cope with
unexpected changes in supply, maintaining inventory levels and reducing risk premiums. It is also worth noting that interaction
terms between Low INVT and disruption dummies are both positive, showing the investors demand higher premiums for firms with
low inventory level during supply chain disruptions.

6.2. Vertical integration and production market competition

    Our main result documents a negative and significant effect of firm-level vertical integration on bond yield spreads, indicating
that investors demand a lower risk premium for more vertically integrated firms. In the dynamic global business environment,
vertical integration can be an innovative strategy for firms to overcome supply chain challenges and mitigate supply chain risks.
Additionally, economists have shown that vertical integration can increase a firm’s market power (Arora et al., 2024) and reduce
market competition (Boehm & Sonntag, 2023). Existing horizontal market power creates further motivation for firms to vertically
integrate to better exploit the market power they already have (Díez-Vial, 2007). Given such insights, we provide an additional
analysis on whether a firm’s level of vertical integration intersects with variations in its product market power in determining
corporate yield spreads.
    To test our question, we incorporate firm-level product similarity and industry concentration measures from Hoberg and Phillips
(2016) into our study. Unlike traditional methods that use pre-defined industry group stratifications, this approach identifies related
firms through textual analysis of the business description section in the 10-K reports. 𝑃 𝑟𝑜𝑑𝑢𝑐𝑡 𝑆𝑖𝑚𝑖𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑖𝑡𝑦 is determined by the total
similarity data customized to each firm based on the Text-based Network Industry Classification (TNIC) data, and is negatively
related to pricing power according to product differentiation theory (Hotelling, 1929). Alternatively, 𝑃 𝑟𝑜𝑑𝑢𝑐𝑡 𝑃 𝑟𝑖𝑐𝑖𝑛𝑔 𝑃 𝑜𝑤𝑒𝑟 is
measured using the TNIC industry concentration, and is customized to each firm.46 We define a high (low) product similarity dummy
as 1 when the total product similarity score lies within the top (bottom) quartile of the sample for each month, and 0 otherwise.
Likewise, a high (low) pricing power dummy is defined as 1 if the industry concentration (HHI) score falls within the top (bottom)
quartile of the sample for each month, and 0 otherwise.
    Table 8 presents the results of our findings. Across Columns (1) to (4), 𝑉 𝐼 remains negative and significant. Interestingly, the
coefficient on the interaction terms in Columns (2) and (3) is negative and significant at the 1% level, while those in Columns


 46 The Text-based Network Industry Classification (TNIC) industry classification is tailored to individual firms, each with its unique array of competitors (Hoberg

& Phillips, 2016).


                                                                                18
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                           The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

               Table 7
               Vertical Integration and Firm Inventory.
               This table presents the panel regression results of the interaction effect between vertical integration and inventory level on
               corporate yield spreads. The dependent variable is the bond yield spread, defined as the difference between corporate bond yield
               and the corresponding treasury bond yield. The main variables of interest is vertical integration (VI) estimated from Frésard
               et al. (2020). Inventory to assets ratio is defined as the industry-adjusted inventory to assets ratio from the previous quarter for
               each bond observation. We define a high (low) inventory dummy as 1 if inventory to assets ratio falls within the top (bottom)
               quartile of the sample for each month and 0 otherwise. The yield spread determinants are based on bond-specific effects (credit
               ratings, bond illiquidity, maturity in years, issue size and coupon), and firm-specific characteristics (long-term debt to assets,
               total debt to capitalization, operating income to sales, equity volatility and pretax interest coverage dummies). We include rating
               dummy variables as a fixed effect to capture variations across different rating categories. The detailed construction of variables
               are defined in Appendix A. Industry and time fixed effects are included in all regressions and t-values based on standard errors
               clustered at the issuer and year level are reported in parentheses. *, ** or *** denotes the significance at the 10%, 5%, or 1%
               level, respectively.
                                                     (1)              (2)            (3)             (4)              (5)             (6)
                VI                                   −3.733***        −2.031**       −3.672***       −1.890**         −3.685***       −2.026**
                                                     (−2.86)          (−2.22)        (−2.80)         (−2.05)          (−2.82)         (−2.20)
                VI * High INVT                       1.495                           1.498                            1.547
                                                     (0.89)                          (0.88)                           (0.91)
                VI * Low INVT                                         −5.591**                       −6.118***                        −5.400**
                                                                      (−2.54)                        (−2.76)                          (−2.44)
                VI * High INVT * Covid                                               2.187
                                                                                     (0.69)
                VI * Low INVT * Covid                                                                11.942***
                                                                                                     (3.39)
                VI * High INVT * TW Phase 1                                                                           −2.516
                                                                                                                      (−0.92)
                VI * Low INVT * TW Phase 1                                                                                            −7.528***
                                                                                                                                      (−2.86)
                VI * Covid                                                           −2.345**        −2.866***
                                                                                     (−2.29)         (−2.75)
                VI * Trade War                                                                                        −2.963**        −1.204*
                                                                                                                      (−2.22)         (−1.88)
                High INVT * Covid                                                    0.015
                                                                                     (0.08)
                Low INVT * Covid                                                                     0.102**
                                                                                                     (2.15)
                High INVT * TW Phase 1                                                                                0.039
                                                                                                                      (0.45)
                Low INVT * TW Phase 1                                                                                                 0.136**
                                                                                                                                      (2.51)
                High INVT                            −0.078                          −0.079                           −0.079
                                                     (−1.62)                         (−1.63)                          (−1.62)
                Low INVT                                              0.020                          0.034                            0.018
                                                                      (0.36)                         (0.61)                           (0.32)
                Covid                                                                0.620***        0.752***
                                                                                     (5.53)          (8.23)
                TW Phase 1                                                                                            0.008           −0.013
                                                                                                                      (0.44)          (−0.83)
                Controls                             Yes              Yes            Yes             Yes              Yes             Yes
                Year FE                              Yes              Yes            Yes             Yes              Yes             Yes
                Month FE                             Yes              Yes            Yes             Yes              Yes             Yes
                Industry FE                          Yes              Yes            Yes             Yes              Yes             Yes
                Observations                         381,583          381,583        381,583         381,583          381,583         381,583
                Adj. 𝑅2                              0.539            0.539          0.539           0.540            0.539           0.539




(1) and (4) are not statistically significant. Our findings show that the impact of vertical integration on reducing yield spreads is
more pronounced among firms characterized by lower product similarities and greater pricing power. For firms with high product
pricing power, a one-standard-deviation increase in vertical integration marginally reduces yield spreads by an additional 5 bps
(−4.194*0.0115) compared to other firms. However, for firms characterized by high product similarities with their competitors,
typically in more competitive industries, the role of vertical integration in further reducing risk premiums is indifferent from that
of other firms. This suggests that the interaction between firm vertical integration and market power amplifies the risk-reduction
effect in the eyes of bondholders.
    We find our results intriguing from the perspective of supply chain management. Conceptually, firms in highly competitive
industries might have more incentives to utilize a vertical integration strategy to mitigate supply chain risk. However, for these
firms where product similarities with competitors are high, the marginal benefits of being more vertically integrated with upstream
and downstream partners diminish. Instead, the reduction in risk premiums manifest more prominently for firms that possess high

                                                                                19
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                               The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

               Table 8
               Vertical Integration and Production Market Competition.
               This table presents the panel regression results of the interaction effect between vertical integration and product market
               competition on corporate yield spreads. The dependent variable is the bond yield spread, defined as the difference between
               corporate bond yield and the corresponding treasury bond yield. The main variables of interest is vertical integration (VI)
               estimated from Frésard et al. (2020). Firm’s product market competition is assessed through two main metrics: total product
               similarity and product pricing power, as estimated by Hoberg and Phillips (2016). We define a high (low) product similarity
               dummy as 1 if the product similarity score falls within the top (bottom) quartile of the sample for each month and 0 otherwise.
               Similarly, we define a high (low) pricing power dummy as 1 if the industry concentration (HHI) score falls within the top
               (bottom) quartile of the sample for each month and zero otherwise. The yield spread determinants are based on bond-specific
               effects (credit ratings, bond illiquidity, maturity in years, issue size and coupon), and firm-specific characteristics (long-term debt
               to assets, total debt to capitalization, operating income to sales, equity volatility and pretax interest coverage dummies). We
               include rating dummy variables as a fixed effect to capture variations across different rating categories. The detailed construction
               of variables are defined in Appendix A. Industry and time fixed effects are included in all regressions and t-values based on
               standard errors clustered at the issuer and year level are reported in parentheses. *, ** or *** denotes the significance at the
               10%, 5%, or 1% level, respectively.
                                                                (1)                      (2)                     (3)                      (4)
                VI                                              −3.863***                −1.694**                −1.990**                 −2.928***
                                                                (−2.94)                  (−2.03)                 (−2.19)                  (−2.77)
                VI * High Product Similarity                    3.194
                                                                (0.86)
                VI * Low Product Similarity                                              −5.896***
                                                                                         (−3.16)
                VI * High Product Pricing Power                                                                  −4.194***
                                                                                                                 (−2.79)
                VI * Low Product Pricing Power                                                                                            −1.200
                                                                                                                                          (−0.37)
                High Product Similarity                         0.057
                                                                (1.43)
                Low Product Similarity                                                   0.061
                                                                                         (1.31)
                High Product Pricing Power                                                                       0.001
                                                                                                                 (0.03)
                Low Product Pricing Power                                                                                                 0.178**
                                                                                                                                          (2.45)
                Controls                                        Yes                      Yes                     Yes                      Yes
                Year FE                                         Yes                      Yes                     Yes                      Yes
                Month FE                                        Yes                      Yes                     Yes                      Yes
                Industry FE                                     Yes                      Yes                     Yes                      Yes
                Observations                                    381,694                  381,694                 381,694                  381,694
                Adj. 𝑅2                                         0.539                    0.539                   0.539                    0.539




pricing power, as these firms are typically the leaders in their sectors and could disproportionately increase the market power from
vertical relatedness in the highly concentrated industries.

7. Conclusion

     In recent years, the growing significance of global supply chains and disruptions caused by events like the U.S.-China trade war
and the Covid-19 pandemic have emphasized the need for effective supply chain management. While vertical integration within
firms is recognized as a valuable tool for managing supply chain risk, its impact on asset prices has remained uncertain. This paper
fills this gap by examining the interaction between firm-level vertical integration, supply chain disruptions, and corporate bond
yield spreads.
     Our findings show that firm vertical integration is priced in the corporate bond market, with reduced risk premiums for more
vertically integrated firms. We identify that this negative effect operates through the supply chain risk channel. Our results shed
light on how, in the midst of supply chain disruptions, vertical integration emerges as a strategic tool to mitigate risks associated
with external suppliers. A more vertically integrated company, through ownership or control of critical elements along the supply
chain, reduces reliance on external sources for essential inputs and gains greater control over the entire production process. This
enhanced control not only establishes a buffer against disruptions affecting external suppliers but also allows the company to adapt
more quickly to changes in supply and demand. Consequently, during significant supply chain disruption events when market risks
are exacerbated, firms with higher levels of vertical integration can be better positioned to mitigate the supply chain risk.

Appendix A

    See Table A.1.



                                                                                 20
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

               Table A.1
               Variable Descriptions.
               The variables used in the paper are listed below.
                Variable                                           Definition
                Main variables
                Vertical Integration (VI)                          Measures the degree to which a firm provides products or
                                                                   services that are vertically related (Frésard et al., 2020).
                Yield Spreads                                      Defined as the difference between corporate bond yield and the
                                                                   corresponding Treasury bond yield with a comparable maturity.
                Control variables
                Illiquidity                                        Roll’s illiquidity measure. Roll (1984) finds that the percentage
                                                                   bis-ask spread equals two times the square roo of minus the
                                                                   covariance between consecutive returns:
                                                                                           √
                                                                                  Roll𝑡 = 2 −𝑐𝑜𝑣(𝑅𝑡,𝑘 , 𝑅𝑡,𝑘−1 )
                                                                   where 𝑅𝑡,𝑘 and 𝑅𝑡,𝑘−1 are returns to two consecutive trades
                                                                   indexed by 𝑘 and 𝑘 − 1, the covariance is computed over all
                                                                   trades during a 21-day window ending on day 𝑡. We require at
                                                                   least one trade during the 21-day window for the daily Roll
                                                                   measure to be valid. Then the monthly Roll measure is the
                                                                   median of all valid daily Roll measures during the month.
                Credit Rating                                      The bond’s numerical credit rating based on the following letter
                                                                   rating conversion scheme: AAA=1, AA+=2, . . . , C=21 and D=22.
                                                                   We mainly use the Standard & Poor’s (S&P) rating from the
                                                                   FISD; when it is not available, we use Moody’s or Fitch rating
                                                                   when possible and drop bonds whose ratings are not identified.
                Maturity                                           Bond’s time to maturity in years.
                Issue Size                                         The amount of the bond issue.
                Coupon                                             Bond’s annual coupon rate in percentage.
                Long-term Debt/Assets                              Ratio of long-term debt (dltt) to book assets (at).
                Operating Income/Sales                             Ratio of operating income (oibdp) to sales. (sale).
                Equity Volatility                                  Equity volatility is estimated as the variance of the issuer’s daily
                                                                   excess stock returns over the past 252 days from fiscal year 𝑡.
                Pretax Interest Coverage                           Ratio of operating income after depreciation (oiadp) plus
                                                                   interest expense (xint) to interest expense.
                Pretax D1                                          First increment of pretax interest coverage ratio between 0 and
                                                                   5, using the procedure outlined in Blume et al. (1998).
                Pretax D2                                          Second increment of pretax interest coverage ratio between 5
                                                                   and 10, using the procedure outlined in Blume et al. (1998).
                Pretax D3                                          Third increment of pretax interest coverage ratio between 10
                                                                   and 20, using the procedure outlined in Blume et al. (1998).
                Pretax D4                                          Fourth increment of pretax interest coverage ratio between 20
                                                                   and 100, using the procedure outlined in Blume et al. (1998).
                Other variables
                Supply Chain Risk                                  Firm supply chain risk measure estimated from transcripts of
                                                                   earning calls (Ersahin et al., 2024).
                Covid Risk                                         Firm Covid-19 risk measure estimated from transcripts of
                                                                   earning calls (Hassan et al., 2023).
                Input China                                        The proportion of imported good from China, measured as the
                                                                   ratio of a firm’s input from China to its total imported inputs
                                                                   (Huang et al., 2023).
                Input China (Diff)                                 The proportion of imported differentiated good from China,
                                                                   measured as the ratio of a firm’s differentiated input from China
                                                                   to its total imported inputs (Huang et al., 2023).
                Inventory/Assets                                   Industry-adjusted inventory to asset ratio, estimated as the
                                                                   difference between the raw inventory to assets ratio (invt/at)
                                                                   and medians for two-digit industries.
                Product Similarity                                 Product similarity scores obtained by parsing the product
                                                                   descriptions from the firm 10Ks customized to each firm based
                                                                   on TNIC data (Hoberg & Phillips, 2016).
                Product Pricing Power                              Firm-level Text-based Network Industry Classifications (TNIC)
                                                                   HHI measure of industry concentration (Hoberg & Phillips,
                                                                   2016).




Appendix B. Supplementary tables




    See Tables B.1 and B.2.



                                                                    21
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                            The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

                Table B.1
                Sample Distribution by Year.
                This table reports the sample distribution by year from July 2002 to June 2020. It includes the total number of observations,
                the number of bonds and issuers for each year, as well as the average vertical integration score and yield spreads (%).
                 Year          # of Observations          # of Bonds         # of Bond Issuers          Vertical Integration        Yield Spreads
                 2002          9830                       2412               397                        0.0176                      3.26
                 2003          20,714                     2785               422                        0.0177                      1.91
                 2004          18,979                     2447               407                        0.0170                      1.14
                 2005          16,451                     2147               388                        0.0166                      1.29
                 2006          15,376                     1966               373                        0.0166                      1.40
                 2007          14,016                     1918               372                        0.0166                      1.61
                 2008          14,429                     1864               351                        0.0158                      3.75
                 2009          17,048                     2058               359                        0.0155                      3.42
                 2010          17,969                     2173               379                        0.0152                      1.55
                 2011          19,045                     2177               380                        0.0154                      1.44
                 2012          21,685                     2596               397                        0.0141                      1.49
                 2013          24,454                     2753               380                        0.0129                      1.22
                 2014          25,571                     2859               387                        0.0130                      1.02
                 2015          27,170                     3033               397                        0.0129                      1.46
                 2016          28,287                     3091               383                        0.0120                      1.58
                 2017          27,738                     3065               365                        0.0121                      1.05
                 2018          29,280                     3196               361                        0.0119                      1.19
                 2019          30,271                     3270               360                        0.0119                      1.22
                 2020          15,741                     3260               345                        0.0126                      1.99


                Table B.2
                Industry Level Supply Chain Risk.
                This table reports the top and bottom 10 industries in terms of overall supply chain risk. Industry-year average of firms’ supply
                chain risk is used to rank the industries.
                 SIC2           Top 10 industries                                         SIC2          Bottom 10 industries
                 20             Food & Kindred Products                                   21            Tobacco Products
                 30             Rubber & Miscellaneous Plastic Products                   23            Apparel, Finished Products from Fabrics
                                                                                                        & Similar Materials
                 33             Primary Metal Industries                                  27            Printing & Publishing
                 35             Industrial Machinery & Equipment                          39            Miscellaneous Manufacturing Industries
                 36             Electronic & Other Electric Equipment                     48            Communications
                 37             Transportation Equipment                                  53            General Merchandise Stores
                 42             Trucking & Warehousing                                    56            Apparel & Accessory Stores
                 44             Water Transportation                                      72            Personal Services
                 52             Building Materials, Hardware, Garden Supplies             79            Amusement & Recreation Services
                                & Mobile Homes
                 75             Auto Repair, Services, & Parking                          80            Health Services




Data availability

    Data will be made available on request.


References

Acemoglu, D., & Tahbaz-Salehi, A. (2020). Firms, failures, and fluctuations: The macroeconomics of supply chain disruptions. National Bureau of Economic
    Research.
Acharya, V. V., Bharath, S. T., & Srinivasan, A. (2007). Does industry-wide distress affect defaulted firms? Evidence from creditor recoveries. Journal of Financial
    Economics, 85(3), 787–821.
Ahern, K. R., & Harford, J. (2014). The importance of industry links in merger waves. The Journal of Finance, 69(2), 527–576.
Alfaro, L., Chor, D., Antras, P., & Conconi, P. (2019). Internalizing global value chains: A firm-level analysis. Journal of Political Economy, 127(2), 508–559.
Anderson, E., & Weitz, B. (1992). The use of pledges to build and sustain commitment in distribution channels. Journal of Marketing Research, 29(1), 18–34.
Antràs, P., & Yeaple, S. R. (2014). Multinational firms and the structure of international trade. In Handbook of International Economics: vol. 4, (pp. 55–130).
    Elsevier.
Arora, K., Singh, A., & Sahare, M. (2024). Vertical integration and market power in supply networks. Available At SSRN 4826945.
Augustin, P., Cong, L. F., Lopez A, R., & Tédongap, R. (2024). Downside risk and the cross-section of corporate bond returns. In Proceedings of Paris December
    2020 finance meeting EUROFIDAI-ESSEC.
Bao, J., Pan, J., & Wang, J. (2011). The illiquidity of corporate bonds. The Journal of Finance, 66(3), 911–946.
Baqaee, D. R., & Farhi, E. (2019). The macroeconomic impact of microeconomic shocks: Beyond Hulten’s theorem. Econometrica, 87(4), 1155–1203.
Benguria, F., & Saffie, F. (2023). Escaping the trade war: Finance and relational supply chains in the adjustment to trade policy shocks. Working Paper.
Bernard, A. B., Jensen, J. B., & Schott, P. K. (2009). Importers, exporters and multinationals: a portrait of firms in the US that trade goods. Producer Dynamics:
    New Evidence from Micro Data, 513–552.
Bessembinder, H., Kahle, K. M., Maxwell, W. F., & Xu, D. (2009). Measuring abnormal bond performance. The Review of Financial Studies, 22(10), 4219–4258.
Bigio, S., & La’O, J. (2020). Distortions in production networks. The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 135(4), 2187–2253.


                                                                                22
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                            The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

Blume, M. E., Lim, F., & MacKinlay, A. C. (1998). The declining credit quality of US corporate debt: Myth or reality? The Journal of Finance, 53(4), 1389–1413.
Boehm, J., & Sonntag, J. (2023). Vertical integration and foreclosure: Evidence from production network data. Management Science, 69(1), 141–161.
Bonadio, B., Huo, Z., Levchenko, A. A., & Pandalai-Nayar, N. (2021). Global supply chains in the pandemic. Journal of International Economics, 133, Article
     103534.
Campbell, J. Y., & Taksler, G. B. (2003). Equity volatility and corporate bond yields. The Journal of Finance, 58(6), 2321–2350.
Campello, M., Chen, L., & Zhang, L. (2008). Expected returns, yield spreads, and asset pricing tests. The Review of Financial Studies, 21(3), 1297–1338.
Carvalho, V. M. (2014). From micro to macro via production networks. Journal of Economic Perspectives, 28(4), 23–48.
Carvalho, V. M., Nirei, M., Saito, Y. U., & Tahbaz-Salehi, A. (2021). Supply chain disruptions: Evidence from the Great East Japan earthquake. The Quarterly
     Journal of Economics, 136(2), 1255–1321.
Chen, L., Lesmond, D. A., & Wei, J. (2007). Corporate yield spreads and bond liquidity. The Journal of Finance, 62(1), 119–149.
Chirinko, R. S., & Schaller, H. (2009). The irreversibility premium. Journal of Monetary Economics, 56(3), 390–408.
Chopra, S., & Sodhi, M. S. (2014). Reducing the risk of supply chain disruptions. MIT Sloan Management Review.
Coase, R. H. (1937). The nature of the firm. Economica, 4(16), 386–405.
Coase, R. (2006). The conduct of economics: The example of Fisher body and general motors. Journal of Economics & Management Strategy, 15, 255–278.
Collin-Dufresn, P., Goldstein, R. S., & Martin, J. S. (2001). The determinants of credit spread changes. The Journal of Finance, 56(6), 2177–2207.
Constantinescu, C., Mattoo, A., & Ruta, M. (2020). Policy uncertainty, trade and global value chains: some facts, many questions. Review of Industrial Organization,
     57, 285–308.
Dick-Nielsen, J. (2009). Liquidity biases in TRACE. The Journal of Fixed Income, 19(2), 43.
Dick-Nielsen, J., Feldhütter, P., & Lando, D. (2012). Corporate bond liquidity before and after the onset of the subprime crisis. Journal of Financial Economics,
     103(3), 471–492.
Dicken, P. (2007). Global shift: Mapping the changing contours of the world economy. SAGE Publications Ltd.
Díez-Vial, I. (2007). Explaining vertical integration strategies: Market power, transactional attributes and capabilities. Journal of Management Studies, 44(6),
     1017–1040.
Dyer, J. H. (1996). Specialized supplier networks as a source of competitive advantage: Evidence from the auto industry. Strategic Management Journal, 17(4),
     271–291.
Dyer, J. H., & Singh, H. (1998). The relational view: Cooperative strategy and sources of interorganizational competitive advantage. Academy of Management
     Review, 23(4), 660–679.
Elton, E. J., Gruber, M. J., Agrawal, D., & Mann, C. (2001). Explaining the rate spread on corporate bonds. The Journal of Finance, 56(1), 247–277.
Engardio, P., Einhorn, B., Kripalani, M., Reinhardt, A., Nussbaum, B., & Burrows, P. (2005). Outsourcing innovation. Bloomberg News.
Ersahin, N., Giannetti, M., & Huang, R. (2024). Supply chain risk: Changes in supplier composition and vertical integration. Journal of International Economics,
     147, Article 103854.
Fajgelbaum, P. D., Goldberg, P. K., Kennedy, P. J., & Khandelwal, A. K. (2020). The return to protectionism. The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 135(1), 1–55.
Fan, J. P., & Goyal, V. K. (2006). On the patterns and wealth effects of vertical mergers. The Journal of Business, 79(2), 877–902.
Fisher, D. (2011). Japan disaster shakes up supply-chain strategies. Harvard Business School, 31.
Frésard, L., Hoberg, G., & Phillips, G. M. (2020). Innovation activities and integration through vertical acquisitions. The Review of Financial Studies, 33(7),
     2937–2976.
Garfinkel, J. A., & Hankins, K. W. (2011). The role of risk management in mergers and merger waves. Journal of Financial Economics, 101(3), 515–532.
Gereffi, G. (1996). Commodity chains and regional divisions. Journal of Asian Business Volume, 12(1).
Gereffi, G., Humphrey, J., & Sturgeon, T. (2005). The governance of global value chains. Review of International Political Economy, 12(1), 78–104.
Gereffi, G., & Lee, J. (2012). Why the world suddenly cares about global supply chains. Journal of Supply Chain Management, 48(3), 24–32.
Gourio, F. (2013). Credit risk and disaster risk. American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics, 5(3), 1–34.
Grossman, S. J., & Hart, O. D. (1986). The costs and benefits of ownership: A theory of vertical and lateral integration. Journal of Political Economy, 94(4),
     691–719.
Grossman, G. M., Helpman, E., & Redding, S. J. (2024). When tariffs disrupt global supply chains. American Economic Review, 114(4), 988–1029.
Gulati, R., Khanna, T., & Nohria, N. (1994). Unilateral commitments and the importance of process in alliances. MIT Sloan Management Review, 35(3), 61.
Gürkaynak, R. S., Sack, B., & Wright, J. H. (2007). The US treasury yield curve: 1961 to the present. Journal of Monetary Economics, 54(8), 2291–2304.
Hart, O., & Moore, J. (1990). Property rights and the nature of the firm. Journal of Political Economy, 98(6), 1119–1158.
Hass, R., & Denmark, A. (2020). More pain than gain: How the U.S.-China trade war hurt America. Brookings Institution.
Hassan, T. A., Hollander, S., Van Lent, L., Schwedeler, M., & Tahoun, A. (2023). Firm-level exposure to epidemic diseases: Covid-19, SARS, and H1N1. The
     Review of Financial Studies, 36(12), 4919–4964.
Helfat, C. E., & Teece, D. J. (1987). Vertical integration and risk reduction. The Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization, 3(1), 47–67.
Hendricks, K. B., Singhal, V. R., & Zhang, R. (2009). The effect of operational slack, diversification, and vertical relatedness on the stock market reaction to
     supply chain disruptions. Journal of Operations Management, 27(3), 233–246.
Hill, C. W., & Hoskisson, R. E. (1987). Strategy and structure in the multiproduct firm. Academy of Management Review, 12(2), 331–341.
Hoberg, G., & Phillips, G. (2016). Text-based network industries and endogenous product differentiation. Journal of Political Economy, 124(5), 1423–1465.
Holmström, B., & Roberts, J. (1998). The boundaries of the firm revisited. Journal of Economic Perspectives, 12(4), 73–94.
Hotelling, H. (1929). Stability in competition. The Economic Journal, 39(153), 41–57.
Huang, J.-Z., & Huang, M. (2012). How much of the corporate-treasury yield spread is due to credit risk? The Review of Asset Pricing Studies, 2(2), 153–202.
Huang, Y., Lin, C., Liu, S., & Tang, H. (2023). Trade networks and firm value: Evidence from the U.S.-China trade war. Journal of International Economics, 145,
     Article 103811.
Hwang, P. (2006). Asset specificity and the fear of exploitation. Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization, 60(3), 423–438.
Ireland, R. D., Hitt, M. A., & Vaidyanath, D. (2002). Alliance management as a source of competitive advantage. Journal of Management, 28(3), 413–446.
Jones, G. R., & Hill, C. W. (1988). Transaction cost analysis of strategy-structure choice. Strategic Management Journal, 9(2), 159–172.
Kedia, S., Ravid, S. A., & Pons, V. (2009). Vertical mergers and the market valuation of the benefits of vertical integration. Available At SSRN 1329088.
Kermani, A., & Ma, Y. (2023). Asset specificity of nonfinancial firms. The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 138(1), 205–264.
Kim, J. H. (2018). Asset specificity and firm value: Evidence from mergers. Journal of Corporate Finance, 48, 375–412.
Klein, B., Crawford, R. G., & Alchian, A. A. (1978). Vertical integration, appropriable rents, and the competitive contracting process. The Journal of Law and
     Economics, 21(2), 297–326.
Lahiri, N., & Narayanan, S. (2013). Vertical integration, innovation, and alliance portfolio size: Implications for firm performance. Strategic Management Journal,
     34(9), 1042–1064.
Lin, Y.-T., Parlaktürk, A. K., & Swaminathan, J. M. (2014). Vertical integration under competition: Forward, backward, or no integration? Production and Operations
     Management, 23(1), 19–35.
Lin, H., Wang, J., & Wu, C. (2011). Liquidity risk and expected corporate bond returns. Journal of Financial Economics, 99(3), 628–650.
Liu, E. (2019). Industrial policies in production networks. The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 134(4), 1883–1948.
Long, J. B., & Plosser, C. I. (1983). Real business cycles. Journal of Political Economy, 91(1), 39–69.


                                                                                23
Y. Li et al.                                                                                                             The British Accounting Review xxx (xxxx) xxx

Longstaff, F. A., Mithal, S., & Neis, E. (2005). Corporate yield spreads: Default risk or liquidity? New evidence from the credit default swap market. The Journal
     of Finance, 60(5), 2213–2253.
Mahoney, J. T. (1992). The choice of organizational form: Vertical financial ownership versus other methods of vertical integration. Strategic Management Journal,
     13(8), 559–584.
Monteverde, K. (1995). Technical dialog as an incentive for vertical integration in the semiconductor industry. Management Science, 41(10), 1624–1638.
Nagler, F. (2020). Yield spreads and the corporate bond rollover channel. Review of Finance, 24(2), 345–379.
Nanda, V., Wu, W., & Zhou, X. A. (2019). Investment commonality across insurance companies: Fire sale risk and corporate yield spreads. Journal of Financial
     and Quantitative Analysis, 54(6), 2543–2574.
Okada, M., & Shirahada, K. (2022). Organizational learning for sustainable semiconductor supply chain operation: A case study of a Japanese company in cross
     border M&A. Sustainability, 14(22), 15316.
Perkins, G., & Murmann, J. P. (2018). What does the success of Tesla mean for the future dynamics in the global automobile sector? Management and Organization
     Review, 14(3), 471–480.
Petersen, M. A. (2009). Estimating standard errors in finance panel data sets: Comparing approaches. The Review of Financial Studies, 22(1), 435–480.
Pishchulov, G., Richter, K., & Golesorkhi, S. (2023). Supply chain coordination under asymmetric information and partial vertical integration. Annals of Operations
     Research, 329(1), 1315–1356.
Ramani, V., Ghosh, D., & Sodhi, M. S. (2022). Understanding systemic disruption from the Covid-19-induced semiconductor shortage for the auto industry.
     Omega, 113, Article 102720.
Rauch, J. E. (1999). Networks versus markets in international trade. Journal of International Economics, 48(1), 7–35.
Roll, R. (1984). A simple implicit measure of the effective bid-ask spread in an efficient market. The Journal of Finance, 39(4), 1127–1139.
Rothaermel, F. T., Hitt, M. A., & Jobe, L. A. (2006). Balancing vertical integration and strategic outsourcing: Effects on product portfolio, product success, and
     firm performance. Strategic Management Journal, 27(11), 1033–1056.
Shih, W. C. (2020). Global supply chains in a post-pandemic world. Harvard Business Review, 98(5), 82–89.
Shleifer, A., & Vishny, R. W. (1992). Liquidation values and debt capacity: A market equilibrium approach. The Journal of Finance, 47(4), 1343–1366.
Spiller, P. T. (1985). On vertical mergers. The Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization, 1(2), 285–312.
Stuart, T. E. (2000). Interorganizational alliances and the performance of firms: A study of growth and innovation rates in a high-technology industry. Strategic
     Management Journal, 21(8), 791–811.
Syntetos, A. A., Nikolopoulos, K., Boylan, J. E., Fildes, R., & Goodwin, P. (2009). The effects of integrating management judgement into intermittent demand
     forecasts. International Journal of Production Economics, 118(1), 72–81.
Wan, X., & Sanders, N. R. (2017). The negative impact of product variety: Forecast bias, inventory levels, and the role of vertical integration. International Journal
     of Production Economics, 186, 123–131.
Williamson, O. E. (1971). The vertical integration of production: Market failure considerations. The American Economic Review, 61(2), 112–123.
Williamson, O. E. (1979). Transaction-cost economics: The governance of contractual relations. The Journal of Law and Economics, 22(2), 233–261.
Williamson, O. E. (1985). The Economic Institutions of Capitalism: Firms, markets, relational Contracting. Free Press.
Yeaple, S. R. (2013). The multinational firm. Annuual Review of Economics, 5(1), 193–217.
Zahoor, N., Wu, J., Khan, H., & Khan, Z. (2023). De-globalization, international trade protectionism, and the reconfigurations of global value chains. Management
     International Review, 1–37.




                                                                                 24
